---
title: ę╗╦Į12┌╗š«ą╣─▓ŽĄ
source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4hBpLHqBSOg
author: Õ░Åµ×ŚĶ»┤
created: NA--
tags: [YouTube, Õ░Åµ×ŚĶ»┤]
---

# ę╗╦Į12┌╗š«ą╣─▓ŽĄ

> µØźµ║É’╝Ü[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4hBpLHqBSOg)
> õĮ£ĶĆģ’╝ÜÕ░Åµ×ŚĶ»┤
> µŚźµ£¤’╝ÜNA--

---

## ÕŁŚÕ╣ĢÕåģÕ«╣

Kind: captions
Language: en
Starting from September 2024,
the central government has successively launched
a series of fiscal and monetary policies
Among them, one that is highly discussed
the term with the highest attention is
Debt resolution
Today, we are not only talking about
how the debt is resolved
What I think is more interesting is that
we can dig into the very unique
financial situation of the Chinese government.
There various type of taxes
which does the local and central government rely on?
How did they allocate?
How did such large amount of hidden debt
being produced?
I need to clarify something first
because our video does have a wide audience
so we'll try to
choose the one that is suitable for me to talk about
while ensuring objectivity.
I hope everyone understand this.
First let's take a brief look at
the government's debt situation.
This is the official debt of the central and
local governments in the past.
In 2023, the central government's debt was 30 trillion
local governments 40 (Trillion)
In total 70 trillion
which is 56% of GDP.
In fact, if you look at this number alone,
it is quite low compared with other countries.
Look at Japan, the United States
France, Singapore, etc.
they are all over 100%
but this is not all of government debt,
itŌĆÖs just the governmentŌĆÖs explicit debt.
In fact, local governments still have a lot of implicit debt
which is not counted here.
So we first clarify
government is divided into central government and local government
Debts is divided into explicit debt and implicit debt.
So what kind of debt is being
resolved this time?
It is the hidden debt of local governments.
What is hidden debt?
It means that local governments don't issue debt in their own name
but rather in the name of a third party
For example, if your credit card is maxed out
but you need money, what should you do?
At this time, you can ask a good friend of yours,
such as Wang, to ask him to borrow money from the bank.
In this way, as far as the bank
is concerned, it is WangŌĆÖs credit
not your credit
Of course, you will still have to pay back the money
You return it to Wang, and Wang return it to bank.
However, the credit limit of the local government
is sufficient with the bank but
not with the central government.
China's debt system is actually quite special
Before this, local governments
could not borrow debts on their own.
In the past ten years, it has been liberalised
local governments can borrow their own debts.
However, in order to limit local governments
from borrowing excessively,
the central government sets a debt ceiling for them
You can only borrow so much.
In 2023, the number was
42 trillion
So if you look at the data on
local government explicit debt
Basically, they borrow right up to this limit
Well, then if the local government still needs money,
it cannot use its own name for financing anymore
What to do?
At this time
it needs to find its own Wang
to help it borrow money from the bank
or help it issue bonds in the market.
Its Wang is the local government financing vehicle,
commonly known as urban investment company
And then the government will give some of their
premium assets to these urban investment companies
to mortgage or borrow debt
The form of debt may be LGFV bond
commercial credit, trusts, etc.
However, LGFV debt
are sometimes unclear when it comes to
debt repayment priority or division of responsibilities,
which are risks for creditors.
So the interest rates on these bonds
are generally relatively high.
LetŌĆÖs introduce just this much for now.
WeŌĆÖll go into the specifics
of land finance later.
Because the definition of implicit debt
itself is relatively vague
therefore, according to different statistical calibers in the market,
you may hear various different figures
Whether the liabilities of urban investment companies and state-owned enterprises
can be completely regarded as local governments.
Wang could be borrowing money
and spend it himself
which is one of the problems of hidden debt.
It is vague.
Previously, the market generally estimated that
the scale of off-budget debt of local governments across the country
is between
50 and 60 trillion yuan.
If you count all the
broad local government
off-budget debt
Wall Street estimates it to be 75 trillion yuan
After each of these debt projects was reported
and reviewed individually
the Ministry of Finance officially announced on November 8th
that the hidden debt balance was 14.3 trillion
which was much smaller than the previous figure.
This can be considered a narrow definition of hidden debt
referring to the scale of hidden debt recognised by the Ministry of Finance
We wonŌĆÖt delve into it.
In short,
no matter how much hidden debt the local government still has
What is clearly to be resolved this time is 12 trillion.
So what is debt resolution?
LetŌĆÖs first take a look at the specific methods.
One is to increase the debt ceiling to 6 trillion
and to be executed in 3 years
Allocate 4 trillion in local government bond
over 5 years
Third, repayment of 2 trillion debt
regardless of deadline.
I guess
for those of you seeing this for the first time
apart from being able to see
6+4+2=12
the rest is just a blur
These words are a little obscure
but it is actually not difficult to understand.
The first one is to raise the debt ceiling to 6 trillion.
DidnŌĆÖt we mention it before?
The central government will give local governments
a clear debt ceiling.
Now I will raise it by 6 trillion
raising it bit by bit over 3 years
Then
you can openly
issue local bonds to borrow money.
Just quickly repay all the money that
you owe Wang
Second is special debt
which is actually a kind of government bond
an explicit debt of the local government.
Generally, it is divided into general bond and special bond.
Special bond
refers to debt incurred for specific purposes
or some specific projects.
In fact, it makes up
the bulk of local government debt
with more than 60% of it being special bond
So, the meaning of this debt refinancing is that
part of the special bond
is being used to repay this hidden debt
However, this statement
is actually a bit ambiguous.
That is, will these 4 trillion
be allocated from the existing quota,
or is it an additional fund?
The 4 trillion
is not clear
we don't know yet.
Third is focusing on repayment
Shantytown redevelopment refers to the renovation projects of
old, dilapidated, and small facilities in urban areas
They generally have a relatively long cycle,
maybe more than ten years
But there was a rule that
shantytown redevelopment budgets
couldnŌĆÖt span more than three years.
This led to many projects with a cycle longer than three years
becoming hidden debt
So now the central government has said that
you donŌĆÖt have to rush to finish it in three years
just finish it step by step.
So did you realise that
the debt resolution figure 10, 12 trillion
sounds staggering
It feels like the central government is about to step in and cover the costs
But with those 3 points,
they mainly have two effects.
One is to convert implicit debt into explicit debt.
To put it bluntly,
stop asking third party to borrow
on your behalf
Just borrow the money yourself.
First, pay back all the money from Wang
let it become your explicit debt
The second is
the debts that are more urgent
is no longer rushed
A quota is given
so that you can borrow new debts and pay off the old debts
Then pay them back slowly.
This is what we often hear called
exchanging time for space
So you still have to pay your own debts and
wipe your own ass, right?
Otherwise, why would it be called debt resolution
instead of debt repayment
More professionally,
it is debt swap and debt restructuring
Some people may think that
this is just borrowing new to repay old.
IsnŌĆÖt it still meaningless?
Indeed,
the intensity this time is not
as intense
Maybe thatŌĆÖs why
the market response wasnŌĆÖt so enthusiastic
But this time, the debt resolution definitely has an effect.
I summarise
there are short-term direct effects.
First of all, the local governmentŌĆÖs interest rate
will indeed be significantly reduced
You must know that
that the interest rates on those LVGF bonds
were very high
some even exceeded 10%
and now more than
ten trillion yuan have been swapped to special bonds.
Interest rate of special bond
is only a few percent.
Finance Minister Lan Fo'an predicted that
it can help local governments
save about 600 billion in interest in three years
In addition, it can solve some
triangular debt problem.
Because we know that
the capital chain in the real estate industry
is generally quite complicated,
There is often a phenomenon of defaulting on accounts
For example, you build first, and IŌĆÖll pay you afterward
Actually, if this was during
the booming of real estate industry
where the funds are constantly expanding
it wouldn't be a problem.
However, once the real estate industry
enters a downward cycle,
it is easy to form a large amount of triangular debt,
the capital chain will be blocked
The debt resolution this time
many trillions of new money coming in
although it is also borrowing
but it can alleviate the problem of
triangular debt to a certain extent .
In addition, with such a large amount of debt resolution
regardless the central government or local government,
whether it is special bond or any other bonds
in short, from the perspective of the entire market,
you can understand it as a kind of financial expansion.
The effect of financial expansion
is to increase the government's debt ratio
to affect the economy,
especially real estate investment and infrastructure investment.
giving them direct stimulus.
Of course, what I just mentioned
are some very direct short-term impacts.
The longer-term and lower-level impacts
will definitely depend on
whether it can gradually move towards a
healthy financial situation.
Many people may be worried that
will debt resolution cause inflation
because if you look directly at the title, it says
massive 12 trillion debt resolution
Many people
don't know what debt resolution is
but they know12 trillion is a lot of money
and that it will eventually turn into inflation
and make everyone pay for it
LetŌĆÖs briefly talk about it.
If we just look at the impact of this wave of debt resolution,
I personally feel that there is no need to worry too much
Actually we mentioned earlier that
from a macroeconomic perspective, this debt resolution
is somewhat equivalent to a fiscal stimulus,
which will definitely have an impact on rising prices.
But how to evaluate this specific effect?
ŌĆŗŌĆŗFirst, it depends on the scale. Second, it depends on the timing.
12 trillion sounds like a lot
but it is actually mainly debt swap
the short-term direct impact is
the hundred billions of interest
The more crucial is timing.
Look, the biggest concern about ChinaŌĆÖs economy right now
is it inflation?
Obviously not.
People may even hope for some inflation.
So
just looking at the direct impact of debt resolution on prices,
I donŌĆÖt think it will be too big.
Of course,
If you're asking about the potential subsequent changes
n local government behavior or any chain reactions
that
I'm not sure
Well debt resolution this time
is as simple as that.
I think many articles
have analysed this very well and in detail.
For example, how to spend the 12 trillion,
how to distribute it, what transmission mechanism,
we wonŌĆÖt dig into it,
but what is the point I want to dig into?
LetŌĆÖs take advantage of the situation
to have a general understanding
of ChinaŌĆÖs relatively unique financial situation.
LetŌĆÖs take a look at the payroll and
daily expenditures of the central and local governments
so that we can better understand
how these hidden debts come from.
First, we have to make one thing clear, it's important
the central government is different
from local government.
Many of you must sneer at this, right?
How could I not know that the central government
and local government are different?
DonŌĆÖt haste
I think many of you must know this.
But sometimes when looking at
or analysing a problem
you may not be able to distinguish it so clearly.
Actually, when I used to try to understand
China's fiscal issues and policy transmission
I subconsciously mixed up
the central government and local governments
The underlying assumption might be
ItŌĆÖs just the government, right?
ItŌĆÖs that policies are transmitted layer by layer
money is allocated layer by layer. ItŌĆÖs that simple
In fact, as we analyse more and more,
you will become more and more aware of the relationship
between the central government and local governments
Whether it's revenue, expenditures, or responsibilities
the division is actually very clear.
There will always be a tug-of-war
between local governments and
between local and central governments
There was a very important
institutional reform in the income distribution
between local and central governments.
In 1994, which
the tax-sharing reform from thirty years ago
Before reformation
the local government had a fiscal contract
and only had to pay
pay a small part of the revenue to the central government and
the remaining money
can be invested and distributed on their own.
The original intention of this is actually
to increase the enthusiasm of local governments.
However, when it was implemented, it was discovered that
on the one hand, it would lead to
some disordered competition among local governments
and has led to local protectionism.
At the same time, the central governmentŌĆÖs financial control
is actually very weak,
so there has been a situation of being unable to make ends meet.
In 1993
the central government's fiscal revenue
only accounted for 22% of the government's overall revenue.
in 1993/1994,
a tax reform was carried out
It made a significant adjustment to the tax revenue distribution
between the central and local governments
Look at this chart
the fiscal revenue distribution between the central and local government
In 1994, there was a
very obvious big jump for central
After more than doubling,
the income ratio of the two sides
basically remained at about half and half.
However, although the central and local governments
have similar fiscal revenue
but the local governments bear more financial responsibilities .
To put it bluntly
the local governments have more places to spend money on.
You see, this is the expenditure ratio of both sides
Central government continues to drop
to only 14% in 2023.
How can the local governments bear it?
So the central government said,
Don't worry,
I will give local governments two additional rights.
One is called transfer payment
I will allocate you more every year depending on the situation
The second thing is the land premium
To put it bluntly, all the income from land sales
is completely owned by local government.
This is also the general situation now.
After the reform of the tax-sharing system,
there have actually been many rounds of small adjustments.
We will not go into details.
LetŌĆÖs just take a look at
the current revenue situation of
the central and local governments.
Regardless of whether the government is central or local governments
have these four accounts:
general public budget, government managed funds
state capital and social insurance funds
together they
constitute the overall financial situation of the government.
Let me tell you,
each of these accounts has its own unique system.
And each give headache to the government.
LetŌĆÖs first talk about the fourth book, social insurance.
It is actually pension.
A big feature of it is that there's only in and no out.
the "out" I am talking about
does not include the normal social security payment
but it means that it cannot be misappropriated
except for regular purposes.
After all, this pension is the basis of people's livelihood.
If you are short of money, you can make up for it from outside,
but you can't transfer it outward.
In short, it is relatively independent
When we usually discuss
government financial issue
we will first take it out and put it aside.
This third book, state capital income
includes
For example, the profit remittance and dividends from state-owned enterprises
which are all included in this book.
This part is actually not much.
The total in 2023 is 674.3 billion
is less than one trillion.
There are more than 200 billion for the central, 400 billion for the local.
and often, the surplus will be
transferred to first account
Let's fast forward.
So let's take a look at the first two accounts,
general public budget revenue
and government-managed fund
We're slowly getting into
the core of government wallet.
LetŌĆÖs first look at this general revenue.
The most important part is tax revenue.
LetŌĆÖs take 2023 for example,
I have made detailed statistics
on the tax situation and specific sources of the
central and local governments.
in 2023
central's general public budget is
10.0 trillion
11.7 trillion for local government
basically half and half.
Let me test you here.
Do you know what is the largest tax revenue source
for the Chinese government?
A Tariff
B Corporate income tax
C Personal income tax
D None of the above
Those who are good at preparing for exams have probably guessed it
what is the correct choice for this kind of question?
The answer is domestic value-added tax
accounts for one-third of the entire government revenue.
You see, this is what I compiled
based on official data from the Ministry of Finance.
Based on different tax sources
the entire government's income, including both central and local governments,
I think this data is quite interesting.
Let's analyse it
First,
let's simply arrange it from large to small.
Do you see that
some of them are all attributed to the central government
such as import and export related taxes,
vehicle purchase tax, etc.,
Some are 100% owned by the local government
such as property tax and land use.
Land value-added tax, deed tax, etc.
However , the biggest thing here
which both parties share
value added tax
and the other is corporate income tax
value added tax is half and half
The corporate income tax is 60% for the central and 40% for the local government.
This corporate income tax
companies must pay a certain percentage of their profits in taxes
This is the same all over the world, easy to understand
Value-added tax
means that during the circulation process of this product,
no matter which link of production it is
as long as there is value added,
you have to pay corresponding value-added tax.
For example,
if the purchase price is 300
and selling price is 500
then for the 200
I have to collect value-added tax accordingly
ThatŌĆÖs roughly what it means.
Then there is another big income
consumption tax, 1.6 trillion.
This part is completely owned by the central
This consumption tax
may not be the same as those of you living overseas
Internationally, consumption tax
is generally levied on consumers.
For example, if you buy a mobile phone for 1,000
the government will impose a 5% consumption tax.
Then you will have to pay a total of 1,050.
This must be familiar to those
in the United States, right?
Because the consumption tax
itself is not on the price tag
and then the tax rate levied by each state is different,
so you have to pay extra every time,
which is very uncomfortable.
However, this consumption tax in China
does not mean this.
It only targets a few products
that affect the ecological environment,
such as automobile, refined oil, firecrackers
those that are harmful to health,
such as tobacco and alcohol
Tax levied on luxury goods
is relatively high.
It is a somewhat punitive tax.
And let me tell you,
this 1.6 trillion consumption tax rate
half of it comes from one product
or even one company, which is
Tobacco
I believe many of you must have heard of
China Tobacco
Although this company is not listed and is very low-key
it is actually a very invisible giant.
In 2023
the total industrial and commercial tax in the tobacco industry
is about 1.2 trillion
on average, people pay over
3 billion in taxes every day
Two third of this
about 2 billion daily is consumption tax
For example, Kweichow Moutai
pays more than 20 billion tax every year
Most of it is also consumption tax.
What I actually want to say is that
did you notice that
government's main tax sources
value-added tax, corporate income tax, consumption tax
are all levied directly from the enterprise.
Although in the traditional economic model
it doesn't matter from whom tax is collected from
in the end it is shared by everyone,
but in fact its effect is very different
The biggest contrast is
personal income tax.
Can you believe that
the income tax paid by individuals across the country
is similar to the tax paid by China Tobacco.
Personal income tax only accounts for less than 7% of the total government revenue.
When I first heard this figure
I was quite surprised.
You have to know that in the United States
personal income tax is
the largest source of government revenue,
accounting for half of the total revenue.
So I naturally thought that
personal income tax
should be a large part of China's revenue
However, it turned out that it was less than 7%.
In other words,
in China no matter it is central
or local governments
most of the taxes are collected
from enterprises.
Of course, this is more in line with China's past development.
They are inseparable from the preference for a production-oriented society.
We will not expand on it
Just now we only looked at revenue
havenŌĆÖt looked at expenditure
We talked about
expenditure is mainly at the local level.
You can see that the fiscal deficit
of local governments in the past ten years has been expanding.
the revenue of local governments is 11.7 trillion
and the expenditure is as high as 23.6 trillion.
The net deficit is close to 12 trillion.
Isn't this almost the same as the scale of debt resolution
but the central governmentŌĆÖs fiscal surplus is also expanding
so it is natural for
the central government to provide transfer payments to local governments.
In 2008
the amount of transfer payments was 2.1 trillion
and by 2023
it has exceeded 10 trillion
In this way,
although the central government and local governments
will still have a little deficit in the end,
basically the difference is not that big.
It has basically been evened out.
We've talked a lot just now
but they are basically government's first account
which is the general public budget revenue.
Have you forgotten that
there are four other accounts?
For the second account
Government managed funds
is the income from some government projects.
This account is very related to hidden debt.
You see, there are many categories included here.
A dense, sprawling mass
but in a very inconspicuous location,
there is a major project
which is the income from the transfer of state-owned land use rights.
Sometimes we call it the land transfer fee for short,
and it is commonly known as land sales.
It can be said that
it accounts for almost all of the second account.
You can see that in 2023
the country's second account
revenue is about 7 trillion
and the central government only has more than 400 billion.
Of the 6.6 trillion
5.5 trillion
more than 80%
comes from land transfer fees.
So you can see that
the revenue from land sales
accounts for the majority of local government revenue.
This is actually
one of the very important results of the
tax-sharing reform in 1994.
We are now going to talk about land finance.
The KPI of the local government is very clear
that is GDP.
But as we have just seen,
its revenue is obviously not enough
so it is natural that it needs to borrow.
but in 2014
before the new version of the budget law
local governments were not allowed to borrow debt by themselves,
so they set up financing platform.
First they give premium assets,
mainly land-related rights and interests,
to urban investment companies for refinancing.
The money is then used to
construct roads and infrastructure.
If you want to get rich, start by building roads.
Once the road is ready
then people and companies can come over.
This will bring about economic vitality.
After the economy develops, GDP will rise.
then they'll reach KPI
The population will also increased
On the one hand,
the government's tax revenue will also increase.
On the other hand, land prices will also increase,
which will drive up the income from
land sales as well
Then the local government allocates money to the urban investment company
to repay the money previously borrowed,
forming a very good closed loop.
The local government
can then carry out a new round of financing and investment.
And here, the government
can't possibly finance and build everything
on its own right
So there are actually various models
for how the government cooperates with construction companies.
You donŌĆÖt need to know the specifics.
In short
the government hopes to use as little debt as possible
to leverage as large projects as possible.
This is basically a chain of land finance.
In fact, when it is operating normally,
it is very beautiful and very reasonable.
This is why
many people will say that real estate
was an engine that promoted the development of the entire economy in the past
But at the same time,
this also caused local governments to gradually accumulate
a large amount of off-balance sheet debt
These hidden debts began with the tax reform in the 1990s
but expanded rapidly
in 2008
after the 4 trillion stimulus plan.
In previous episodes we talked about
many countries' macroeconomies
an increase in debt levels
and government deficits
isnŌĆÖt necessarily a bad thing.
It does not mean that the less debt you have, the healthier you will be.
On the contrary, you see many developed countries
and healthy economy actually
has a very high debt ratio.
Of course, this debt ratio
includes the government's debt ratio
and the residents' debt ratio.
The key to judging whether this debt
is healthy
is not its amount
but whether the investment corresponding to the debt
can produce a corresponding return
It means whether the return on investment
can exceed the interest it has to pay.
To put it bluntly, it is whether you can afford to repay this debt.
If you look at early 2000s
during the rapid development of China
it was obviously possible.
At that time, infrastructure was built,
there will always be return on investment.
The recent pandemic
economic fluctuations
lowering of housing prices
caused a problem for
the ROI of these projects
So, many local governments
have begun to face huge financial pressure
This is the revenue from land use revenue
for the past few years
It has been plummeting
2021, it is still 8.7 trillion
and by 2024,
it is estimated that it is only 4.5 trillion,
almost halved.
This is the key that have plunged local governments
into a quagmire of debt.
That's when large-scale debt resolution followed.
In fact, this is not the first time that debt resolution have been carried out
Since 2015
the central government has carried out
three large-scale debt resolution
which the methods are similar to this one.
Mainly debt swap
with a total swap of approximately 15 trillion.
This is the fourth time.
The first time
was from 2015 to 2018,
a total of 12.2 trillion local debt had been swapped.
The scale is also very considerable.
But that round
was not aimed at hidden debt
mostly target swapping non-debt forms on the balance sheet
to debt forms
Then the target was on hidden debts
However, the scale is not large
and it is more like a pilot for this debt resolution
This time, it's a large-scale debt resolution
led by the central government
targeting all local governments
After this large-scale debt resolution,
I believe that the debt pressure of local governments
will definitely be greatly reduced.
However, if we want to fundamentally
solve these debt problems
still depends on
whether we can successfully
promote the reform of financing platform companies
in the future when land finance gradually weakens
Find a new sustainable development model, and
Under the premise of ensuring financial health
more resources should be concretely
invested into people's livelihoods
This is a deeper issue.
