# _DINISO_4532_01101995_C.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Test Method 
Materials 
GMW14688 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scratch and Mar Resistance 
 
 
© Copyright 2007 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
April 2007 
Originating Department: GME Specification Center 
Page 1 of 3
1 Scope 
Note: 
Nothing 
in 
the 
standard 
supersedes 
applicable laws and regulations. 
Note: In the event of conflict between the English 
and domestic language, the English language shall 
take precedence. 
1.1 The object of this test method is the 
determination of the scratch resistance of plastics 
(Method A) and the determination of the mar 
resistance on plastics (Method B). For this purpose 
the surface is scratched. 
Note: Method A is the standard method. Method A 
may be used for molded parts and for sample 
plates. Method B is a development method. 
Method B may only be used for sample plates with 
correct color and grain. 
Method A is based on ISO 7724. 
Method B is based on ISO 2813. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ISO 2813 
ISO 7724 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
None 
 
3 Test Equipment 
3.1 Method A. 
3.1.1 Tool. Cylindrical hard metal pen with ball-
shaped end (radius (0.5 ± 0.01) mm, polished) 
according to Figure 1. 
3.1.2 Measuring Equipment. Spectrophotometer 
that fulfills the requirements to ISO 7724. 
For determination of the scratch resistance shall be 
used the principle of spectro-photometrically 
measuring of the luminance L* with help of the 
“Ulbrichtsche Kugel” (see Figure 2). 
 
 
Figure 1: Cylindrical Hard Metal Pen 
 
 
1 
Brilliancy opening 
2 
Brilliancy of a perfect mirror 
3 
Observation opening 
4 
Source of light 
5 
Measurement with gloss excluded 
6 
Test piece (medium brilliancy) 
Figure 2: “Ulbrichtsche Kugel” 
• 
Type of light: 
 
 
D 65 diffused 
• 
Measurement geometry: 
d/8° 
• 
Restrictor:  
 
27 mm diameter 
• 
Gloss trap: yes (SEX = Specular EXcluded) 
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/26/2007 19:13:43 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--``,``,,,,`,,,,`,,`````,,```,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW14688 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2007 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 3 
April 2007
3.2 Method B. 
3.2.1 
Tool. 
Stainless 
steel 
disc 
(diameter 
16 ± 0.3 mm, 1 ± 0.02 mm thick) with rounded and 
polished border (radius 0.5 ± 0.01 mm) according 
to Figure 3. 
 
A 
Scratch direction 
Figure 3: Disc 
3.2.2 Measuring Equipment. Gloss measuring 
apparatus with 60° measurement geometry to 
ISO 2813, elliptic measurement area according to 
apparatus supplier information. 
3.3 Scratching Device. Motor driven cross cutting 
tool, e.g., Erichson Model 430, with the ability to 
scratch the specified grid pattern at specified test 
speed and possibility to place the specified loads 
on the scratching tool. 
4 Test Material 
Test pieces shall be obtained from finished parts. 
Shape and size shall be such that an even contact 
between the test piece, its support and the 
measurement equipment is obtained, and a stroke 
on the test piece surface of ≥ 40 mm is available. 
For 
initial 
sample 
approval 
and 
arbitration 
purposes, at least three test pieces shall be 
examined; for routine quality control purposes, at 
least 1 test piece shall be examined. 
5 Test Method 
Deviations from the requirements of this test 
method (e.g., number of test pieces, testing time, 
etc.) shall have been agreed upon. These 
requirements shall be specified on component 
drawings, 
and 
shall 
be 
indicated 
on 
test 
certificates, test reports etc. 
5.1 Summary of Test Method. The plastic surface 
is exposed to mechanical load, e.g., scratching. 
 
5.2 Test Sample Preparation. For initial sample 
approval and arbitration purposes, the minimum 
period between manufacturing of the component 
and testing shall be seven days. For routine quality 
control tests, 72 h will be sufficient. 
Note: The tested surface shall not be touched and 
shall be free of any contamination. 
5.3 Test Procedure. 
5.3.1 The test shall be performed at a temperature 
of +23 ± 5°C. 
5.3.2 Method A. For the test the tool is clamped in 
a suitable apparatus with lever arm. Subsequent 
the lever arm is balanced out. The tool is loaded 
with the first required load (coding per Table 1) and 
is pulled over the test piece surface ≥ 40 mm with 
a speed of 1000 ± 50 mm/minute. Minimum 20 
scratches parallel to each other are brought up 
with a distance of 2 mm. The application of the 
scratches is repeated perpendicular to each other, 
so that the result is a scratching screen (see 
Figure 4). The scratching direction shall be 
unidirectional. The test is repeated for each 
additional required load, until for each load a 
separate scratching screen (see Figure 4) has 
been scratched. Each scratching screen shall be 
marked by the related code of the load per Table 1. 
Note: If no definition is given in the material 
specification or on the engineering drawing, all 
codes (1 to 3) shall be executed. 
 
Figure 4: Scratching Screen (Method A) 
 
Table 1: Defined Loads for Scratch Test 
Code 
Load in [N] 
1 
5 ± 0.05 
2 
10 ± 0.1 
3 
15 ± 0.15 
4 
As specified 
5.3.3 Method B. For the test the tool is clamped in 
a suitable apparatus with lever arm. Subsequent 
the lever arm is balanced out. The tool is loaded 
with 7 ± 0.07 N and is pulled over the test piece 
surface 
≥ 40 mm 
with 
a 
speed 
of 
1000 ± 50 mm/minute. The alignment of the tool 
shall be transversal (see Figure 3) to the travel 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/26/2007 19:13:43 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--``,``,,,,`,,,,`,,`````,,```,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14688
 
© Copyright 2007 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
April 2007 
Page 3 of 3
direction. Minimum 80 mar lines parallel to each 
other are brought up with a distance of 0.5 mm. 
The application of the mar lines is repeated 
perpendicular to each other, so that the result is a 
mar screen (see Figure 5). The mar direction shall 
be unidirectional. 
 
Figure 5: Mar Screen (Method B) 
6 Evaluation and Rating 
6.1 Method A. To ISO 7724. 
6.2 Method B. To ISO 2813. 
7 Report 
7.1 Method A. The scratch resistance of plastics is 
reported with reference to this test method as the 
difference of the luminance ΔL* of the unscratched 
from the scratched areas. 
7.2 Method B. The mar resistance is reported with 
reference to this test method as the difference of 
the brilliance grade of the polished from the 
unpolished areas. 
8 Safety 
This method may involve hazardous materials, 
operations, and equipment. This method does not 
propose to address all the safety problems 
associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the 
user of the method to establish appropriate safety 
and 
health 
practices 
and 
determine 
the 
applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 
9 Notes 
9.1 Glossary. 
Mar: Change of gloss grade caused by plane 
flattening of the surface structure. 
Scratch: Change of luminance caused by linear 
damage of the surface structure. 
9.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. 
SEX 
 
Specular EXcluded 
10 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, etc., as follows: 
Example for Method A: 
“Scratch Resistance to GMW14688 – Code 2 - 1.0 
max” 
Scratch Resistance = Designation 
GMW14688 = Test Method 
Code 2 – Code per Table 1 (= 10 ± 0.1 N load) 
1.0 max = Requirement 
Example for Method B: 
“Mar Resistance to GMW14688 - B - 1.0 max” 
Mar Resistance= Designation 
GMW14688 = Test Method 
B = Method B 
1.0 max = Requirement 
11 Release and Revisions 
11.1 Release. This test method originated in 
October 
2005, 
replacing 
GME60280 
and 
GMN3943. It was first approved by the Global 
Material Engineering Plastics Team in April 2007. It 
was first published in April 2007. 
 
 
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/26/2007 19:13:43 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--``,``,,,,`,,,,`,,`````,,```,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
