# BS EN ISO 7253-2001 色漆和清漆　耐中性盐雾的测定.pdf

BRITISH STANDARD
BS EN ISO 
7253:2001      
BS 3900-F12: 
1997
Incorporating 
Amendment No. 1 to 
BS 3900-F12:1997 
(renumbers the BS as 
BS EN ISO 
7253:2001) and 
incorporating 
Corrigendum No. 1
Paints and varnishes — 
Determination of 
resistance to neutral 
salt spray (fog)
The European Standard EN ISO 7253:2001 has the status of a 
British Standard
ICS 87.040
NO COPYING WITHOUT BSI PERMISSION EXCEPT AS PERMITTED BY COPYRIGHT LAW


BS EN ISO 7253:2001
This British Standard, having 
been prepared under the 
direction of the Sector Board 
for Materials and Chemicals, 
was published under the 
authority of the Standards 
Board and comes
 into effect on
15 April 1997
© BSI 18 March 2002
ISBN 0 580 27234 6
National foreword
This British Standard is the official English language version of 
EN ISO 7253:2001. It is identical with ISO 7253:1996.
The UK participation in its preparation was entrusted to Technical Committee 
STI/3, Paint media and related products, which has the responsibility to:
— aid enquirers to understand the text;
— present to the responsible international/European committee any 
enquiries on the interpretation, or proposals for change, and keep the UK 
interests informed;
— monitor related international and European developments and 
promulgate them in the UK.
A list of organizations represented on this committee can be obtained on 
request to its secretary.
Cross-references
The British Standards which implement international or European 
publications referred to in this document may be found in the BSI Standards 
Catalogue under the section entitled “International Standards Correspondence 
Index”, or using the “Find” facility of the BSI Standards Electronic Catalogue.
A British Standard does not purport to include all the necessary provisions of 
a contract. Users of British Standards are responsible for their correct 
application.
Compliance with a British Standard does not of itself confer immunity 
from legal obligations.
Summary of pages
This document comprises a front cover, an inside front cover, the EN ISO title 
page, the EN ISO foreword page, the ISO title page, pages ii to iv, pages 1 to 8, 
an inside back cover and a back cover.
The BSI copyright notice displayed in this document indicates when the 
document was last issued.
Amendments issued since publication
Amd. No.
Date
Comments
13288
01 October 2001 Implementation of the European Standard
13775 
Corrigendum No. 1
18 March 2002
Incorporating the Annex ZA
标准分享网 www.bzfxw.com 免费下载


EUROPEAN STANDARD
NORME EUROPÉENNE
EUROPÄISCHE NORM
EN ISO 7253
August 2001
ICS 87.040
English version
Paints and varnishes — Determination of resistance to 
neutral salt spray (fog)
(ISO 7253:1996)
Peintures et vernis — Détermination de la 
résistance au brouillard salin neutre
(ISO 7253:1996)
Beschichtungsstoffe — Bestimmung der 
Beständigkeit gegen neutralen Salzsprühnebel
(ISO 7253:1986)
This European Standard was approved by CEN on 29 June 2001.
CEN members are bound to comply with the CEN/CENELEC Internal
Regulations which stipulate the conditions for giving this European Standard
the status of a national standard without any alteration. Up-to-date lists and
bibliographical references concerning such national standards may be obtained
on application to the Management Centre or to any CEN member
This European Standard exists in three official versions (English, French,
German). A version in any other language made by translation under the
responsibility of a CEN member into its own language and notified to the
Management Centre has the same status as the official versions.
CEN members are the national standards bodies of Austria, Belgium,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, 
Luxembourg, 
Netherlands, 
Norway, 
Portugal, 
Spain, 
Sweden,
Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
CEN
European Committee for Standardization
Comité Européen de Normalisation
Europäisches Komitee für Normung
Management Centre: Rue de Stassart, 36 B-1050 Brussels
© 2001 CEN All rights of exploitation in any form and by any means reserved worldwide for CEN national 
Members
Ref. No. EN ISO 7253:2001 E


EN ISO 7253:2001
© BSI 18 March 2002
Foreword
The text of the International Standard from 
Technical Committee ISO/TC 35, Paints and 
varnishes, of the International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO) has been taken over as a 
European Standard by Technical Committee 
CEN/TC 139, Paints and varnishes, the Secretariat 
of which is held by DIN.
This European Standard shall be given the status of 
a national standard, either by publication of an 
identical text or by endorsement, at the latest by 
February 2002, and conflicting national standards 
shall be withdrawn at the latest by February 2002.
According to the CEN/CENELEC Internal 
Regulations, the national standards organizations 
of the following countries are bound to implement 
this European Standard: Austria, Belgium, Czech 
Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, 
Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, 
Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, 
Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
Endorsement notice
The text of the International Standard 
ISO 7253:1996 has been approved by CEN as a 
European Standard without any modifications.
NOTE
Normative references to International Standards are 
listed in Annex ZA (normative).
CORRECTED 2002-02-06
标准分享网 www.bzfxw.com 免费下载


www.bzfxw.com


www.bzfxw.com
EN ISO 7253:2001
ii
© BSI 18 March 2002
Foreword
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide 
federation of national standards bodies (ISO member bodies). The work of 
preparing International Standards is normally carried out through ISO technical 
committees. Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical 
committee has been established has the right to be represented on that committee. 
International organizations, governmental and non-governmental, in liaison with 
ISO, also take part in the work. ISO collaborates closely with the International 
Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) on all matters of electrotechnical 
standardization.
Draft International Standards adopted by the technical committees are circulated 
to the member bodies for voting. Publication as an International Standard requires 
approval by at least 75 % of the member bodies casting a vote.
International Standard ISO 7253 was prepared by Technical Committee 
ISO/TC 35, Paints and varnishes, Subcommittee SC 9, General test methods for 
paints and varnishes.
This second edition cancels and replaces the first edition (ISO 7253:1984) of which 
it constitutes a technical revision. The main changes are:
a) the addition of a calibration procedure to check the corrosivity within the 
apparatus;
b) more details have been given on the preparation of the scratches to be 
applied to the panels.
Annex A, Annex B and Annex C are integral parts of this International Standard.
Descriptors: Paints, varnishes, tests, salt spray tests, determination, chemical resistance, reference 
sample.
标准分享网 www.bzfxw.com 免费下载


www.bzfxw.com
EN ISO 7253:2001
© BSI 18 March 2002
iii
Introduction
There is seldom a direct relationship between the resistance of organic coatings 
to the action of salt spray (fog) and the resistance to corrosion in other 
environments. This is because the effect of each of the several factors influencing 
the progress of corrosion, such as the formation of protective films, varies greatly 
with the conditions encountered. Therefore, the results obtained in the test 
should not be regarded as a direct guide to the corrosion resistance of the tested 
coatings in all environments where these coatings may be used. Also, 
performance of different coatings in the test should not be taken as a direct guide 
to the relative corrosion resistance of these coatings in service, even under the 
severe conditions of marine exposure. Nevertheless, the method described gives 
a means of checking that the quality of a paint or paint system is being 
maintained.
NOTE 1
The apparatus and operating conditions described in this International Standard comply, 
but do not necessarily equate, with ISO 9227:1990, Corrosion tests in artificial atmospheres — Salt 
spray tests. The minimum size of cabinet permissible for testing paints, varnishes and related 
products is greater (see 6.1).


www.bzfxw.com
iv
blank
标准分享网 www.bzfxw.com 免费下载


www.bzfxw.com
EN ISO 7253:2001
© BSI 18 March 2002
1
1 Scope
This International Standard is one of a series of standards dealing with the sampling and testing of paints, 
varnishes and related products.
It describes a method for determining the resistance of coatings to neutral salt spray (fog) in accordance 
with the requirements of coating or product specifications.
2 Normative references
The following standards contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of 
this International Standard. At the time of publication, the editions indicated were valid. All standards are 
subject to revision, and parties to agreements based on this International Standard are encouraged to 
investigate the possibility of applying the most recent editions of the standards indicated below. Members 
of IEC and ISO maintain registers of currently valid International Standards.
ISO 1512:1991, Paints and varnishes — Sampling of products in liquid or paste form.
ISO 1513:1992, Paints and varnishes — Examination and preparation of samples for testing.
ISO 1514:1993, Paints and varnishes — Standard panels for testing.
ISO 2808:—1), Paints and varnishes — Determination of film thickness.
ISO 3270:1984, Paints and varnishes and their raw materials — Temperatures and humidities for 
conditioning and testing.
ISO 3574:1986, Cold-reduced carbon steel sheet of commercial and drawing qualities.
ISO 3696:1987, Water for analytical laboratory use — Specification and test methods.
ISO 4628-1:1982, Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of degradation of paint coatings — Designation of 
intensity, quantity and size of common types of defect — Part 1: General principles and rating schemes.
ISO 4628-2:1982, Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of degradation of paint coatings — Designation of 
intensity, quantity and size of common types of defect — Part 2: Designation of degree of blistering.
ISO 4628-3:1982, Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of degradation of paint coatings — Designation of 
intensity, quantity and size of common types of defect — Part 3: Designation of degree of rusting.
ISO 4628-4:1982, Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of degradation of paint coatings — Designation of 
intensity, quantity and size of common types of defect — Part 4: Designation of degree of cracking.
ISO 4628-5:1982, Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of degradation of paint coatings — Designation of 
intensity, quantity and size of common types of defect — Part 5: Designation of degree of flaking.
3 Principle
A coated test panel is exposed to neutral salt spray (fog) and the effects of exposure are evaluated by criteria 
agreed in advance between the interested parties, these criteria usually being of a subjective nature.
4 Required supplementary information
For any particular application, the test method specified in this International Standard needs to be 
completed by supplementary information. The items of supplementary information are given in Annex A.
5 Test solution
5.1 The test solution shall be prepared by dissolving sodium chloride in water of at least grade 3 purity as 
defined in ISO 3696 to produce a concentration of (50 ± 5) g/l. The sodium chloride shall be white, of 
minimum assay 99,6 % (m/m), and substantially free from copper and nickel; it shall contain not more than 
0,1 % (m/m) of sodium iodide. If the pH of the solution is outside the range 6,0 to 7,0, the presence of 
undesirable impurities in the salt or the water or both shall be investigated.
5.2 The pH of the test solution (5.1) shall be adjusted so that the pH of sprayed solution collected within 
the test cabinet (see clause 6) shall be between 6,5 and 7,2. Any necessary adjustment to the pH shall be 
made by additions of solutions of either hydrochloric acid or sodium bicarbonate of analytical grade.
1) To be published. (Revision of ISO 2808:1991)


www.bzfxw.com
EN ISO 7253:2001
2
© BSI 18 March 2002
NOTE 2
Attention is drawn to the possible changes in pH resulting from loss of carbon dioxide from the test solution when it is 
sprayed. Such changes may be avoided by reducing the carbon dioxide content of the solution by, for example, heating it to a 
temperature above 35 C before it is placed in the apparatus or by making the solution from freshly boiled water.
5.3 The test solution shall be filtered before it is placed in the reservoir of the apparatus, in order to remove 
any solid matter which might block the nozzle(s) of the spraying device.
6 Apparatus
Ordinary laboratory apparatus and glassware, together with the following:
6.1 A spray cabinet, made of, or lined with, material resistant to corrosion by the spray and with a roof 
which prevents condensed moisture dripping on to the test panels. The cabinet shall have a capacity of not 
less than 0,4 m3 since, with smaller volumes, difficulties are experienced in ensuring even distribution of 
spray.
The size and shape of the cabinet shall be such that the quantity of solution collected in the spray-collecting 
devices (6.4) is within the limits stated in 10.2.
Cabinets with a volume greater than 2 m3 will be difficult to operate unless careful consideration is given 
to their design and construction. Factors which shall be taken into consideration are given in Annex B.
6.2 Adjustable heater, adequate to maintain the cabinet and its contents at the specified temperature 
(see 10.1). The temperature shall be controlled by a thermostat element placed within the cabinet at least 
100 mm from the walls. A thermometer, capable of being read from the outside, shall be placed wholly 
within the cabinet at least 100 mm from the walls, roof or floor.
6.3 Spraying device, comprising a supply of clean compressed air of constant pressure and humidity, a 
reservoir containing the solution to be sprayed and one or more spray nozzles made of material resistant 
to the solution.
The compressed air supply to each spray nozzle shall be passed through a filter to remove all traces of oil 
or solid matter and shall be at a pressure of 70 kPa to 170 kPa2). In order to prevent evaporation of the 
spray droplets, the air shall be humidified before entering each nozzle by passage through a saturation 
column containing water of at least grade 3 purity as defined in ISO 3696 at a temperature several degrees 
Celsius higher than that of the cabinet. The actual temperature of the water will depend on the pressure 
used and on the type of spray nozzle, and shall be adjusted so that the rate of collection of spray in the 
cabinet and the sodium chloride concentration of the spray collected are kept within the specified limits 
(see 10.2).
The reservoir containing the test solution shall be made of material resistant to the solution and shall be 
provided with a means of delivering a constant volume of solution to the spray nozzles at all times.
The spray nozzles shall be made of inert material, for example glass or plastic.
The cabinet shall be vented to ensure that there is no build up of pressure within the cabinet and in such 
a way that the environment outside the cabinet does not influence that inside the cabinet.
NOTE 3
Baffles may be used to prevent direct impingement of spray on the test panels, and the use of adjustable baffles is helpful 
in obtaining uniform distribution of spray throughout the cabinet.
6.4 Spray-collecting devices, of chemically inert material (see note 4). The collecting devices shall be placed 
in the zone of the cabinet where the test panels are placed, at least one close to a spray nozzle and one 
remote from a spray nozzle. They shall be placed so that only spray is collected, and not liquid dripping 
from test panels or parts of the holders or cabinet. The number of collecting devices shall be at least twice 
the number of spray nozzles.
NOTE 4
Glass or plastic funnels with their stems inserted into graduated cylinders have been found to be suitable collecting devices. 
Funnels with a diameter of 100 mm have a collecting area of approximately 80 cm2.
6.5 Test panel holders, capable of supporting the test panels at an angle of between 15 and 25 to the 
vertical, normally racks made of inert non-metallic material such as glass, plastic or suitably coated wood. 
Exceptionally, if it is necessary to suspend the test panels, the material used shall be synthetic fibre, cotton 
thread or another inert insulating material, but on no account metallic material. The test panels may be 
located at different levels in the cabinet but they shall be positioned so that the solution cannot drip from 
panels or holders at one level on to other panels below.
2) 1 kPa = 1 kN/m2 (= 0,01 bar)
标准分享网 www.bzfxw.com 免费下载
