# BS EN ISO 4628-1-2003 色漆和清漆.漆膜降解的评定.缺陷的量值和大小以及外观均匀变化强度的规定.一般说明和指示系统 .pdf

BRITISH STANDARD
BS EN ISO 
4628-1:2003
BS 
3900-H1:2003
Incorporating 
Corrigendum No. 1
Paints and varnishes — 
Evaluation of 
degradation of 
coatings — Designation 
of quantity and size of 
defects, and of intensity 
of uniform changes in 
appearance — 
Part 1: General introduction and 
designation system
The European Standard EN ISO 4628-1:2003 has the status of a 
British Standard
ICS 87.040
	





	


BS EN ISO 4628-1:2003
This British Standard was 
published under the authority 
of the Standards Policy and 
Strategy Committee on 
19 September 2003
© BSI 25 November 2003
ISBN 0 580 42658 0
National foreword
This British Standard is the official English language version of 
EN ISO 4628-1:2003. It is identical with ISO 4628-1:2003. It supersedes 
BS 3900-H1:1983 which is withdrawn.
The UK participation in its preparation was entrusted to Technical Committee 
STI/10, Test methods for paints, which has the responsibility to: 
A list of organizations represented on this committee can be obtained on 
request to its secretary.
Cross-references
The British Standards which implement international or European 
publications referred to in this document may be found in the BSI Catalogue 
under the section entitled “International Standards Correspondence Index”, or 
by using the “Search” facility of the BSI Electronic Catalogue or of 
British Standards Online.
This publication does not purport to include all the necessary provisions of a 
contract. Users are responsible for its correct application.
Compliance with a British Standard does not of itself confer immunity 
from legal obligations.
—
aid enquirers to understand the text;
—
present to the responsible international/European committee any 
enquiries on the interpretation, or proposals for change, and keep the 
UK interests informed;
—
monitor related international and European developments and 
promulgate them in the UK.
Summary of pages
This document comprises a front cover, an inside front cover, the EN ISO title 
page, the EN ISO foreword page, the ISO title page, pages ii to iv, pages 1 to 3 
and a back cover.
The BSI copyright notice displayed in this document indicates when the 
document was last issued.
Amendments issued since publication
Amd. No. 
Date
Comments
14875 
Corrigendum No. 1
25 November 2003
Correction to EN ISO foreword page 


EUROPEAN STANDARD
NORME EUROPÉENNE
EUROPÄISCHE NORM
EN ISO 4628-1
September 2003
ICS 87.040
English version
Paints and varnishes - Evaluation of degradation of coatings -
Designation of quantity and size of defects, and of intensity of
uniform changes in appearance - Part 1: General introduction
and designation system (ISO 4628-1:2003)
Peintures et vernis - Evaluation de la dégradation des
revêtements - Désignation de la quantité et de la dimension
des défauts, et de l'intensité des changements uniformes
d'aspect - Partie 1: Introduction générale et systéme de
désignation (ISO 4628-1:2003)
Beschichtungsstoffe - Beurteilung von
Beschichtungsschäden - Beurteilung der Menge und der
Größe von Schäden und der Intensität von gleichmäßigen
Veränderungen im Aussehen - Teil 1: Allgemeine
Einführung und Bewertungssystem (ISO 4628-1:2003)
This European Standard was approved by CEN on 1 August 2003.
CEN members are bound to comply with the CEN/CENELEC Internal Regulations which stipulate the conditions for giving this European
Standard the status of a national standard without any alteration. Up-to-date lists and bibliographical references concerning such national
standards may be obtained on application to the Management Centre or to any CEN member.
This European Standard exists in three official versions (English, French, German). A version in any other language made by translation
under the responsibility of a CEN member into its own language and notified to the Management Centre has the same status as the official
versions.
CEN members are the national standards bodies of Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and United
Kingdom.
EUROPEAN COMMITTEE FOR STANDARDIZATION
COMITÉ EUROPÉEN DE NORMALISATION
EUROPÄISCHES KOMITEE FÜR NORMUNG
Management Centre: rue de Stassart, 36    B-1050 Brussels
© 2003 CEN
All rights of exploitation in any form and by any means reserved
worldwide for CEN national Members.
Ref. No. EN ISO 4628-1:2003 E


I NESO 64-82:12( 300E)
2
CORRECTED   2003-10-29
Foreword
This document (EN ISO 4628-1:2003) has been prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 35
"Paints and varnishes" in collaboration with Technical Committee CEN/TC 139 "Paints and
varnishes", the secretariat of which is held by DIN.
This European Standard shall be given the status of a national standard, either by publication of
an identical text or by endorsement, at the latest by March 2004, and conflicting national
standards shall be withdrawn at the latest by March 2004.
According to the CEN/CENELEC Internal Regulations, the national standards organizations of
the following countries are bound to implement this European Standard: Austria, Belgium, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and
the United Kingdom.
Endorsement notice
The text of ISO 4628-1:2003 has been approved by CEN as EN ISO 4628-1:2003 without any
modifications.
EN ISO 4628−1:2003
2


 
 
 
 
 
Reference number
ISO 4628-1:2003(E)
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL 
STANDARD 
ISO
4628-1
Third edition
2003-09-01
Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of 
degradation of coatings — Designation of 
quantity and size of defects, and of 
intensity of uniform changes in 
appearance — 
Part 1: 
General introduction and designation 
system 
Peintures et vernis — Évaluation de la dégradation des revêtements — 
Désignation de la quantité et de la dimension des défauts, et de 
l'intensité des changements uniformes d'aspect — 
Partie 1: Introduction générale et système de désignation 
 
EN ISO 4628−1:2003


IS-8264 O1:(3002E) 
DPlcsid Fremia 
ihTs PDF file mya ctnoian emdebt dedyfepcaes. In ccacnadrow eitA h'ebods licnesilop gnic,y tihs file mirp eb yatnde iv roweb detu 
slahl ton ide ebtlnu deess teh typfecaes wihce era hml era deddebicsnede ti dna onstlalde t noeh comuptfrep reromign tide ehtin.g In 
wodlnidaot gnihs fil,e trapise atpecc tiereht nser ehnopsiiblity fo nto ifnriigngn A'ebods licnesilop gnic.y ehT ISO tneClar Secrteirata 
caceptl on siibality in this .aera 
Ai ebods a tedarmfo kra Aebod SystemI snctaropro.de 
teDials fo teh sfotwcudorp erats sut deo crtaee tihs PDF file cna f ebi dnuon tlareneG eh Ifnler oatit evt oeh file; tP ehDc-Frtaeino 
marapterew stpo ereimizde fro irptni.gn Evyre cera neeb sah takne tsne oeru taht teh file is siutlbae fosu re yb ISO memdob rebeis. In 
tlnu ehikletneve y ttah lborp aem lertait gno it is f,dnuo plsaee ifnrom ttneC ehlar Secterirata ta teh serddaig sleb nevwo. 
 
©   ISO 3002 
All irthgs erse.devr lnUeto sswrehise specified, on trap fo this lbupictaion maeb y cudorperro de tuilizi den yna form ro na ybm ynae,s 
lecetrinoc ro mceinahcla, incliduntohp gcoiypodna gn micrfoilm, wittuoh repmissii now nritign from ietI rehSa Ot tsserdda eh ebolw or 
IS'Os memreb i ydobn the cnuotfo yr ttseuqer ehe.r 
ISO cirypothg fofice 
saCe tsopale 65 •eneG 1121-HC  02 av
leT. 4 + 10 947 22 1 11 
xaF0 947 22 14 +  9 74 
E-mial  coirypthgi@s.o gro
We  bwww.is.o gro
 
ii 
 
 
EN ISO 4628−1:2003


 
iii
 
Contents 
Page 
Foreword............................................................................................................................................................ iv 
1 
Scope...................................................................................................................................................... 1 
2 
General principles of the designation system ................................................................................... 1 
3 
Assessment of defects and of intensity of changes......................................................................... 1 
3.1 
General................................................................................................................................................... 1 
3.2 
Designation of quantity of defects...................................................................................................... 2 
3.3 
Designation of size of defects ............................................................................................................. 2 
3.4 
Designation of intensity of changes ................................................................................................... 2 
4 
Expression of results............................................................................................................................ 3 
5 
Test report ............................................................................................................................................. 3 
 
EN ISO 4628−1:2003


iv 
 
Foreword 
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies 
(ISO member bodies). The work of preparing International Standards is normally carried out through ISO 
technical committees. Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical committee has been 
established has the right to be represented on that committee. International organizations, governmental and 
non-governmental, in liaison with ISO, also take part in the work. ISO collaborates closely with the 
International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) on all matters of electrotechnical standardization. 
International Standards are drafted in accordance with the rules given in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2. 
The main task of technical committees is to prepare International Standards. Draft International Standards 
adopted by the technical committees are circulated to the member bodies for voting. Publication as an 
International Standard requires approval by at least 75 % of the member bodies casting a vote. 
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent 
rights. ISO shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights. 
ISO 4628-1 was prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 35, Paints and varnishes, Subcommittee SC 9, 
General test methods for paints and varnishes. 
This third edition cancels and replaces the second edition (ISO 4628-1:1982), of which it constitutes a mainly 
editorial revision. 
ISO 4628 consists of the following parts, under the general title Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of 
degradation of coatings — Designation of quantity and size of defects, and of intensity of uniform changes in 
appearance: 
 Part 1: General introduction and designation system 
 Part 2: Assessment of degree of blistering 
 Part 3: Assessment of degree of rusting 
 Part 4: Assessment of degree of cracking 
 Part 5: Assessment of degree of flaking 
 Part 6: Assessment of degree of chalking by tape method 
 Part 7: Assessment of degree of chalking by velvet method 
 Part 8: Assessment of degree of delamination and corrosion around a scribe 
 Part 10: Assessment of degree of filiform corrosion 
 
EN ISO 4628−1:2003


INTENRATIONAL TSANDADR 
IS-8264 O1:(3002E)
 
 
1
 
Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of degradation of 
coatings — Designation of quantity and size of defects, and of 
intensity of uniform changes in appearance — 
Part 1: 
General introduction and designation system 
1 
Scope 
This part of ISO 4628 defines a system for designating the quantity and size of defects and the intensity of 
changes in appearance of coatings and outlines the general principles of the system used throughout 
ISO 4628. This system is intended to be used, in particular, for defects caused by ageing and weathering, and 
for uniform changes such as colour changes, for example yellowing. 
The other parts of ISO 4628 provide pictorial standards or other means of evaluating particular types of defect. 
As far as possible, already existing evaluation schemes have been used as the basis. 
This part of ISO 4628 can also be used for assessing defects not covered by the other parts of ISO 4628. 
2 
General principles of the designation system 
A uniform convention has been adopted for designating the quantity and size of defects and the intensity of 
changes by means of ratings on a numerical scale ranging from 0 to 5, 0 denoting no defects or changes, and 
5 denoting defects or changes so severe that further discrimination is not reasonable. The other ratings, 
corresponding to the numbers 1, 2, 3 and 4, are so defined that they give optimum discrimination over the 
whole range of the scale. 
The use of intermediate half-steps is permissible, if specified, to give a more detailed report on the defects or 
changes observed. 
NOTE 1 
The quantity of small defects scattered over the test area may be assessed by means of a grid method. 
Details of such a method are described in ISO 4540, Metallic coatings — Coatings cathodic to the substrate — Rating of 
electroplated test specimens subjected to corrosion tests. 
NOTE 2 
The ISO ranking may be different from the ranking schemes used in other standards, e.g. the rusting 
evaluation ASTM D 610, Standard Test Method for Evaluating Degree of Rusting on Painted Steel Surfaces, where 
ranking is from 10 to 1, with 10 meaning no change and 1 meaning greatest change. 
In addition to the ratings, the approximate dimensions of the area concerned shall be given, or the proportion 
of the area concerned compared with the total area, expressed as a percentage. 
3 
Assessment of defects and of intensity of changes 
3.1 General 
Carry out the assessment under good illumination. 
EN ISO 4628−1:2003


2 
 
3.2 Designation of quantity of defects 
The quantity of defects in the form of discontinuities or other local imperfections in the coating, scattered over 
the test area in a more or less even pattern, is designated in accordance with Table 1. The ratings shall be 
expressed as a whole number unless otherwise specified (see Clause 2). 
Table 1 — Rating scheme for designating the quantity of defects 
Rating 
Quantity of defect 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
none, i.e. no detectable defects 
very few, i.e. small, barely significant number of defects 
few, i.e. small but significant number of defects 
moderate number of defects 
considerable number of defects 
dense pattern of defects 
3.3 Designation of size of defects 
The average size (order of magnitude) of defects is designated, if required and meaningful, in accordance with 
Table 2. 
Table 2 — Rating scheme for designating the size of defects 
Rating 
Size of defect a 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
not visible under × 10 magnification 
only visible under magnification up to × 10 
just visible with normal corrected vision 
clearly visible with normal corrected vision (up to 0,5 mm) 
0,5 mm to 5 mm 
larger than 5 mm 
a 
Unless otherwise specified in subsequent parts of this International Standard. 
Where a test area exhibits defects of various sizes, the size of the largest defects which are numerous enough 
to be typical of the test area shall be quoted as the size rating. The size of the defect shall be reported using 
the designation Sn where S indicates the size and n is the rating number. For example, a defect which is just 
visible with normal corrected vision is designated S2. 
3.4 Designation of intensity of changes 
The intensity of uniform changes in the appearance of the coating, such as colour changes, for example 
yellowing, is designated in accordance with Table 3. The ratings shall be expressed as a whole number 
unless otherwise specified (see Clause 2). 
EN ISO 4628−1:2003
