# BS_EN_ISO_2177-1995.pdf

BRITISH STANDARD
BS EN ISO 
2177:1995
Incorporating 
Amendment No. 1
Metallic coatings —
Measurement of 
coating thickness —
Coulometric method by 
anodic dissolution
The European Standard EN ISO 2177:1994 has the status of a 
British Standard


BS EN ISO 2177:1995
This British Standard, having 
been prepared under the 
direction of the Surface 
Coatings (other than Paints) 
Standards Committee, was 
published under the authority 
of the Board of BSI and 
comes into effect on 
28 February 1986
© BSI 03-2000
First published April 1977
First revision February 1986
The following BSI references 
relate to the work on this 
standard:
Committee reference SRC/14
Draft for comment 80/55367 DC
ISBN 0 580 14913 7
Committees responsible for this 
British Standard
The preparation of this British Standard was entrusted by the Surface 
Coatings (other than Paints) Standards Committee (SRC/-) to Technical 
Committee SRC/14, upon which the following bodies were represented:
Aluminium Federation
Association of Manufacturers of Domestic Electrical Appliances
Association of Metal Sprayers
British Anodising Association
British Industrial Fasteners Federation
British Jewellers’ Association
British Telecommunications plc
City of London Polytechnic
Department of Trade and Industry (National Physical Laboratory)
Institute of Metal Finishing
Institution of Corrosion Science and Technology
Metal Finishing Association
Ministry of Defence
NDT Trade Association
Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders Limited
Amendments issued since publication
Amd. No.
Date of issue
Comments
8493
April 1995
Indicated by a sideline in the margin
标准分享网 www.bzfxw.com 免费下载


BS EN ISO 2177:1995
© BSI 03-2000
i
Contents
Page
Committees responsible
Inside front cover
National foreword
ii
Foreword
2
Text of EN ISO 2177
3
Publications referred to
Inside back cover


BS EN ISO 2177:1995
ii
© BSI 03-2000
National foreword
This revised Part of BS 5411 has been prepared under the direction of the Surface 
Coatings (other than Paints) Standards Committee. It is identical with 
the 1985 edition of ISO 2177 “Metallic coatings — Measurement of coating 
thickness — Coulometric method by anodic dissolution” which was prepared, with 
the active participation and approval of the United Kingdom, by Subcommittee 2, 
Methods of inspection and co-ordination of test methods, of Technical 
Committee 107, Metallic and other non-organic coatings, of the International 
Organization for Standardization (ISO). This Part of BS 5411 supersedes 
BS 5411-4:1977 which is now withdrawn.
In 1994 the European Committee for Standardization (CEN) accepted 
ISO 2177:1985 as European Standard EN ISO 2177:1994. As a consequence of 
implementing the European Standard this British Standard is renumbered as 
BS EN ISO 2177 and any reference to BS 5411-4 should be read as a reference to 
BS EN ISO 2177.
The first edition of this Part of BS 5411 differed in a number of respects from the 
first edition of ISO 2177. In the second edition of ISO 2177, dated 1985, many of 
the technical differences have been removed and those that remain are 
considered acceptable by the committee concerned. Accordingly 
ISO 2177:1985 has been adopted for this edition of this Part of BS 5411.
This edition of BS 5411-4 differs from the previous edition in its editorial layout 
and also in the following principal respects.
a) The scope has been extended to include coatings of autocatalytic nickel and 
tin-lead alloys, and substrates of nickel-cobalt-iron alloys, silver and 
non-metals.
b) A new clause has been included listing those factors that may affect the 
accuracy of coating thickness measurements.
c) The procedure has been extended to cover measurements of undercoat 
thickness and of coating thicknesses on cylindrical specimens.
d) A clause has been included specifying information to be included in the test 
report.
Terminology and conventions. The text of the International Standard has 
been approved as suitable for publication as a British Standard without 
deviation. Some terminology and certain conventions are not identical with those 
used in British Standards; attention is drawn especially to the following.
The comma has been used as a decimal marker. In British Standards it is current 
practice to use a full point on the baseline as the decimal marker.
Where the words “International Standard” appear, referring to this standard, 
they should be read as “Part of BS 5411”.
In British Standards it is current practice to use the symbol “L” for litre (and 
its submultiples) rather than “l”, and to use the spelling “sulphur”, etc., instead 
of “sulfur”, etc.
NOTE
Textual error. In B.0, paragraph 3, line 3, “settings in” should be read as “settings if”.
Cross-reference
International Standard
Corresponding British Standard
ISO 2064:1980
BS 5411 Methods of test for metallic and related 
coatings
Part 1:1980 Definitions and conventions concerning the 
measurement of thickness
(Identical)
标准分享网 www.bzfxw.com 免费下载


BS EN ISO 2177:1995
© BSI 03-2000
iii
A British Standard does not purport to include all the necessary provisions of a 
contract. Users of British Standards are responsible for their correct application.
Compliance with a British Standard does not of itself confer immunity 
from legal obligations.
Summary of pages
This document comprises a front cover, an inside front cover, pages i to iv, 
the EN title page, pages 2 to 14, an inside back cover and a back cover.
This standard has been updated (see copyright date) and may have had 
amendments incorporated. This will be indicated in the amendment table on the 
inside front cover.


iv
blank
标准分享网 www.bzfxw.com 免费下载


EUROPEAN STANDARD
NORME EUROPÉENNE
EUROPÄISCHE NORM
EN ISO 2177
October 1994
ICS 25.220.40
Descriptors: Coatings, metal coatings, tests, determination, thickness, coulometric methods
English version
Metallic coatings — Measurement of coating thickness — 
Coulometric method by anodic dissolution
(ISO 2177:1985)
Revêtements métalliques — Mesurage de 
l’épaisseur — Méthode coulométrique par 
dissolution anodique 
(ISO 2177:1985)
Metallische Überzüge — 
Schichtdickenmessung — Coulometrisches 
Verfahren durch anodisches Ablösen 
(ISO 2177:1985)
This European Standard was approved by CEN on 1994-10-26. CEN members
are bound to comply with the CEN/CENELEC Internal Regulations which
stipulate the conditions for giving this European Standard the status of a
national standard without any alteration.
Up-to-date lists and bibliographical references concerning such national
standards may be obtained on application to the Central Secretariat or to any
CEN member.
This European Standard exists in three official versions (English, French,
German). A version in any other language made by translation under the
responsibility of a CEN member into its own language and notified to the
Central Secretariat has the same status as the official versions.
CEN members are the national standards bodies of Austria, Belgium,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and
United Kingdom.
CEN
European Committee for Standardization
Comité Européen de Normalisation
Europäisches Komitee für Normung
Central Secretariat: rue de Stassart 36, B-1050 Brussels
© 1994 Copyright reserved to CEN members
Ref. No. EN ISO 2177:1994 E


EN ISO 2177:1994
© BSI 03-2000
2
Foreword
This European Standard was taken over by the 
Technical Committee CEN/TC 262, Protection of 
metallic materials against corrosion, from the work 
of ISO/TC 107, Metallic and other inorganic 
coatings, of the International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO).
CEN/TC 262 has decided to submit the final draft 
for formal vote. The result was positive.
This European Standard shall be given the status of 
a national standard, either by publication of an 
identical text or by endorsement, at the latest by 
April 1995, and conflicting national standards shall 
be withdrawn at the latest by April 1995.
According to the CEN/CENELEC Internal 
Regulations, the following countries are bound to 
implement this European Standard: Austria, 
Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, 
Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, 
Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, 
Switzerland and United Kingdom.
NOTE
Normative references to international publications are 
listed in Annex ZA (normative).
Contents
Page
Foreword
2
1
Scope and field of application
3
2
Reference
3
3
Definitions
3
4
Principle
3
5
Instrumentation
3
6
Electrolyte
3
7
Factors affecting the measuring 
accuracy
4
8
Procedure
5
9
Expression of results
6
10
Measurement uncertainty
6
11
Test report
7
Annex A Types of instrument
8
Annex B Typical electrolytes
9
Annex ZA (normative) Normative references 
to international publications with their 
relevant European publications
13
Table 1 — Typical combinations of coatings 
and substrates which can be tested by the 
coulometric method
4
Table 2 — Cell sizes for measurements 
on curved surfaces
8
Table 3 — Applicability of electrolytes
9
标准分享网 www.bzfxw.com 免费下载


EN ISO 2177:1994
© BSI 03-2000
3
1 Scope and field of application
This International Standard specifies a coulometric 
method by anodic dissolution for measuring the 
thickness of metallic coatings.
Typical combinations of coatings and substrates 
that can be tested by this method are given in 
Table 1. Other combinations may be tested with 
electrolytes in current use (see Annex B), or new 
electrolytes may be developed for them, but, in both 
cases, it is necessary to verify the suitability of the 
complete system.
The method is also applicable to multi-layer 
systems, for example Cu/Ni/Cr (see also 8.6).
This method may be used to measure the thickness 
of coatings applied by various means, if due account 
is taken of special features, such as the presence of 
an alloy layer. In some cases, the presence and 
thickness of diffusion layers can also be measured. 
It can also be used to measure the thickness of 
coatings on cylindrical specimens and wires 
(see 8.8).
2 Reference
ISO 2064, Metallic and other non-organic 
coatings — Definitions and conventions concerning 
the measurement of thickness. 
3 Definitions
For the purpose of this International Standard, the 
definitions of ISO 2064, and the following, apply.
3.1 
measuring area
the area of the significant surface over which a 
single measurement is made
the measuring area for this method is the area 
enclosed by the sealing ring of the cell
4 Principle
Anodic dissolution of a well-defined area of the 
coating using a suitable electrolyte. Detection of the 
virtually complete dissolution of the coating by a 
rapid change in cell voltage. Calculation of the 
coating thickness from the quantity of electricity (in 
coulombs) used, which may in turn be calculated 
from
a) the time interval between the start and the end 
of the test, if it is conducted at constant current 
density;
b) the integrated quantity of electricity used in 
dissolving the coatings.
5 Instrumentation
5.1 Suitable instruments may be constructed from 
readily available components but proprietary 
instruments are usually used (see Annex A).
5.2 Proprietary direct reading instruments are 
available for use with electrolytes recommended by 
the manufacturer. Other instruments record the 
quantity of electricity, in coulombs, used in 
dissolving the coating from the measuring area 
(see clause 3), usually in arbitrary units, from 
which the thickness is calculated using factors or 
tables.
With direct reading instruments, the calculation of 
thickness from current density is made 
electronically.
5.3 The performance of the instrument shall be 
checked using specimens of known coating 
thickness. If the instrument readings agree to ± 5 % 
of the known thicknesses of the specimens, the 
instrument may be used without further 
adjustment. Otherwise, the cause of the discrepancy 
shall be removed. Proprietary instruments shall 
always, however, be calibrated in accordance with 
the manufacturer’s instructions.
Suitable specimens of known coating thickness shall 
consist of the same type of coating and substrate as 
the specimen to be measured, and they shall have 
an accuracy of 5 % or better. If measuring alloy 
coatings, the use of correct specimens is of 
particular importance.
6 Electrolyte
The electrolyte shall have a known, adequate 
shelf-life and shall be such that:
a) there is no reaction with the coating metal in 
the absence of an impressed flow of current;
b) the coating dissolves anodically at an efficiency 
as close to 100 % as possible;
c) a detectable sharp change in electrode 
potential occurs as the coating is penetrated and 
an increasing area of substrate is exposed;
d) the test area exposed in the test cell is 
completely wetted.


EN ISO 2177:1994
4
© BSI 03-2000
Table 1 — Typical combinations of coatings and substrates which can be tested 
by the coulometric method
The electrolyte shall be chosen in relation to the 
coating and substrate materials, the current density 
and electrolyte circulation within the test cell. 
Typical electrolytes that have been found 
satisfactory for use with one type of test apparatus 
for testing various electrodeposited coatings on 
specific substrates are described in Annex B.
For proprietary instruments, the electrolytes shall 
normally be chosen on the recommendations of the 
manufacturer.
7 Factors affecting the measuring 
accuracy
The following factors may affect the accuracy of 
coating thickness measurements.
7.1 Coating thickness
Generally, the accuracy is lower than optimum for 
coating thicknesses greater than 50 4m and less 
than 0,2 4m, unless special equipment is used.
With coatings thicker than 50 4m, there may be an 
appreciable amount of bevelling or undercutting as 
the anodic dissolution proceeds. The amount of 
bevelling is largely dependent on the method 
employed for stirring the electrolyte. Undercutting 
may be eliminated, or reduced, by increasing the 
rate of dissolution, i.e. by increasing the current 
density used in the test.
7.2 Current variation
For instruments using the constant current and 
time measuring technique, current variation will 
cause errors. For instruments using a current-time 
integrator, too large a change in current may change 
the anode current efficiency or interfere with the 
end-point causing an error.
7.3 Area variation
The accuracy of the thickness measurement will be 
no better than the accuracy to which the measuring 
area is known. Area variations due to gasket wear, 
gasket pressure, etc., may lead to measurement 
errors. Much greater accuracy can be obtained if the 
electrolytic cells are so designed that sealing rings 
consistently give well-defined measuring areas.1) In 
some cases it may be advantageous to measure the 
area after it has been deplated and compensate 
accordingly.
Coating
Substrate (basis material)
Aluminiuma
Copper and copper 
alloys
Nickel
Nickel-cobalt-iron 
alloys
(such as Kovar)
Silver
Steel
Zinc
Non-metals
Cadmium
X
X
X
—
—
X
—
X
Chromium
X
X
X
—
—
X
—
X
Copper
X
Only on brass and 
copper-beryllium
X
—
—
X
X
X
Lead
X
X
X
X
X
X
—
X
Nickel
X
X
—
X
—
X
—
X
Nickel, 
autocatalyticb
X
X
X
X
—
X
—
X
Silver
X
X
X
—
—
X
—
X
Tin
X
X
X
—
—
X
—
X
Tin-lead alloysc
X
X
X
X
—
X
—
X
Zinc
X
X
X
—
—
X
—
X
a The detection of the change in the cell voltage may be difficult with some aluminium alloys.
b The coulometric method can only be used if the phosphorus or boron contents of these coatings are within certain limits.
c The method is sensitive to alloy composition.
1) Error due to variations of the measuring area may, in some instances, be minimized by modifying the instrument calibration 
using coating thickness calibration standards. Such standards should create similar test conditions to those during actual tests, 
particularly if testing curved surfaces.
标准分享网 www.bzfxw.com 免费下载
