# DIN 55996 碎石冲击NAB7.9_N0075_ISO_20567-1_(E).pdf

© ISO 2004 – All rights reserved
Document type:   International Standard
Document subtype:   
Document stage:   (50) Approval
Document language:   E
T:\NAB-NPF\_NORMEN\ISO\ISO_20567-1\ISO_20567-1_(E).DOC  STD Version 2.1c
ISO TC 35/SC 9   
Date:   2004-03-01
ISO/FDIS 20567-1:2004(E)
ISO TC 35/SC 9/WG 23
Secretariat:   BSI
Paints and varnishes — Determination of stone chip resistance of
coatings — Part 1: Multi-impact test
Peintures et vernis — Contrôle d'impact de pierraille de revêtements — Partie 1: Essai de résistance au chocs
multiples
NAB 7.9  N 0075


ISO/FDIS 20567-1:2004(E)
ii
© ISO 2004 – All rights reserved
Copyright notice
This ISO document is a Draft International Standard and is copyright-protected by ISO. Except as permitted
under the applicable laws of the user's country, neither this ISO draft nor any extract from it may be reproduced,
stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, photocopying, recording or
otherwise, without prior written permission being secured.
Requests for permission to reproduce should be addressed to either ISO at the address below or ISO's member
body in the country of the requester.
ISO copyright office
Case postale 56 • CH-1211 Geneva 20
Tel.  + 41 22 749 01 11
Fax  + 41 22 749 09 47
E-mail  copyright@iso.org
Web  www.iso.org
Reproduction may be subject to royalty payments or a licensing agreement.
Violators may be prosecuted.


ISO/FDIS 20567-1:2004(E)
© ISO 2004 – All rights reserved
iii
Contents
Page
Foreword.....................................................................................................................................................................iv
Introduction .................................................................................................................................................................v
1
Scope...............................................................................................................................................................1
2
Normative references ....................................................................................................................................1
3
Principle. .........................................................................................................................................................1
4
Apparatus .......................................................................................................................................................2
5
Materials..........................................................................................................................................................2
6
Sampling .........................................................................................................................................................2
7
Test panels .....................................................................................................................................................2
8
Procedure .......................................................................................................................................................3
9
Evaluation.......................................................................................................................................................3
10
Precision .........................................................................................................................................................4
11
Test report ......................................................................................................................................................4
Annex A (informative)  Recommended procedure for calibration of test apparatus...........................................11


ISO/FDIS 20567-1:2004(E)
iv
© ISO 2004 – All rights reserved
Foreword
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies (ISO
member bodies). The work of preparing International Standards is normally carried out through ISO technical
committees. Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical committee has been established has
the right to be represented on that committee. International organizations, governmental and non-governmental, in
liaison with ISO, also take part in the work. ISO collaborates closely with the International Electrotechnical
Commission (IEC) on all matters of electrotechnical standardization.
International Standards are drafted in accordance with the rules given in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2.
The main task of technical committees is to prepare International Standards. Draft International Standards adopted
by the technical committees are circulated to the member bodies for voting. Publication as an International
Standard requires approval by at least 75 % of the member bodies casting a vote.
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent rights.
ISO shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights.
ISO 20567-1 was prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 35, Paints and varnishes, Subcommittee SC 9,
General methods for paint and varnishes.
ISO 20567 consists of the following parts, under the general title Paints and varnishes — Determination of stone
chip resistance of coatings:
 Part 1: Multi-impact test
 Part 2: Single-impact test with a conducted indenter
 Part 3: Single-impact test with a free flying indentor.


ISO/FDIS 20567-1:2004(E)
© ISO 2004 – All rights reserved
v
Introduction
In the automobile industry, multi-layer coatings are applied to car bodies for protection. Grit, road-metal and other
materials can damage these coatings in such a way that individual layers come off or the whole coating
delaminates from the substrate.
Stone chipping can be simulated by means of single and/or multi impact tests. Part 1 of this standard describes a
multi-impact test, parts 2 and 3 each describe a single impact test.
This standard is based on the German Standard DIN 55996-1, Beschichtungsstoffe — Prüfung der
Steinschlagfestigkeit von Beschichtungen — Teil 1: Multischlagprüfung (Paints and varnishes — Stone chip
resistance test for coatings — Part 1: Multi impact test).
Annex A is informative because the method described in it is not the only one suitable to check whether a uniform
impact pattern is produced.


FINAL DRAFT INTERNATIONAL STANDARD
ISO/FDIS 20567-1:2004(E)
© ISO 2004 – All rights reserved
1
Paints and varnishes — Determination of stone chip resistance of
coatings — Part 1: Multi-impact test
1 
Scope
This standard specifies three methods for the evaluation of the resistance of automobile finishes and other coatings
to chilled iron grit projected onto the surface under test to simulate the impact of small stones.
2 
Normative references
The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of this document. For dated references,
only the edition cited applies. For undated references, the latest edition of the referenced document (including any
amendments) applies.
ISO 1513, Paints and varnishes — Examination and preparation of samples for testing.
ISO 1514, Paints and varnishes — Standard panels for testing.
ISO 2808, Paints and varnishes — Determination of film thickness.
ISO 3270, Paints and varnishes and their raw materials — Temperatures and humidities for conditioning and
testing.
ISO 11124-2, Preparation of steel substrates before application of paints and related products — Specifications for
metallic blast-cleaning abrasives — Part 2: chilled-iron grit.
ISO 11125-2, Preparation of steel substrates before application of paints and related products — Test methods for
metallic blast-cleaning abrasives — Part 2: determination of particle size distribution.
ISO 15528, Paints, varnishes and raw materials for paints and varnishes — Sampling.
ISO 21227-2, Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of defects on coated surfaces using digital optical imaging — Part
2: Evaluation of results of multi-impact stone chipping test.
IEC 60454-2, Specification for pressure-sensitive adhesive tapes for electrical purposes — Part 2: Methods of test .
3 
Principle.
The stone chip resistance of the coating under test is checked by projecting a large number of small sharp-edged
bodies onto it in rapid succession. The material used in the test is chilled iron grit which is projected onto the
coating at a defined angle using compressed air. The extent of the damage caused also depends on the pressure
level, the mass of the projected material, the duration of the bombardment and the construction of the test
apparatus.
Loose fragments of coating material are removed using adhesive tape.
The extent of the damage is determined by comparison with reference pictures.


ISO/FDIS 20567-1:2004(E)
2
© ISO 2004 – All rights reserved
4 
Apparatus
Ordinary laboratory apparatus together with the following:
4.1 Multi-impact tester
Figures 1 and 2 show the test apparatus and its dimensions.
The vibrating conveyor carries the grit from the funnel into the air blast behind the accelerating nozzle. The time
interval within which the grit is to be conveyed shall be variable. The apparatus shall be capable of projecting 500 g
of grit during a period of 10 s. The pressure chamber shall be large enough to allow the specified working pressure
of 200 kPa (= 2 bar) to be held at a constant level for at least 10 s while the solenoid valve is open.
Used grit can be taken from the grit catch chamber after the test and may be used again to a limited extent (see
4.2).
5 
Materials
5.1 Grit1)
The grit shall be chilled iron grit conforming to ISO 11124-2, except that the particle size, determined in accordance
with ISO 11125-2, shall be 4 mm to 5 mm.
The grit shall be replaced at the end of the test series that corresponds most closely to a maximum of 100 test
runs.
5.2 Adhesive tape
Unless otherwise agreed, adhesive tape with an adhesive strength between 6 N/25 mm width and 10 N/25 mm
width (tested in accordance with ISO 60454-2) shall be used. The tape shall be at least 50 mm wide.
6 
Sampling
Take a representative sample of the coating material to be tested, as described in ISO 15528.
Examine and prepare each sample for testing, as described in ISO 1513.
7 
Test panels
7.1 Substrate
Unless otherwise agreed, use 200 mm × 100 mm steel test panels that are between 0,7 mm and 1,0 mm thick.
7.2 Preparation and coating
Unless otherwise agreed, prepare each test panel in accordance with ISO 1514 before coating it using the
application method specified by the paint manufacturer and drying or stoving.
                                                     
1)
For information about grit suppliers, please contact the Normenausschuss Beschichtungsstoffe und Beschichtungen (NAB) 
im DIN, Burggrafenstraße 6, 10787 Berlin, Germany.


ISO/FDIS 20567-1:2004(E)
© ISO 2004 – All rights reserved
3
7.3 Thickness of coating
Determine the thickness, in micrometres, of the dry coating by one of the procedures specified in ISO 2808.
8 
Procedure
8.1 Conditioning of the test panels
Condition the test panels, for at least 16 h at (23 ± 2) °C and (50 ± 5) % relative humidity before carrying out the
test, unless otherwise agreed (see also ISO 3270).
8.2 Test conditions
The test shall be carried out at (23 ± 2) °C and (50 ± 5) % relative humidity (see ISO 3270).
NOTE
Exceptionally, other test conditions may be agreed by the interested parties..
8.3 Projection of grit
Cary out the test using condition A, B or C; with the parameters given in table 1. The method shall be agreed
between the interested parties.
Table 1 — Test methods
Method
Pressure
kPaa  
Mass of grit
g
Conveying interval
s
A
100 ± 5
2 x (500 + 20)
2 x (10 ± 2)
B
200 ± 10
2 x (500 + 20)
2 x (10 ± 2)
C
200 ± 10
1 x (500 + 20)
10 ± 2
followed by, for example, corrosion or weathering tests, then
200 ± 10
1 x (500 + 20)
10 ± 2
a
100 kPa = 1 bar
Weigh the grit after each test run and add material, if required, to keep the total mass at 500 g.
After a maximum of 100 test runs, replace the used grit with 500 g of fresh grit; see 5.1. Note that the grit may
never be replaced within an ongoing test series.
The conveying interval shall be checked with a stopwatch each time a new test series is started and, if required,
during an ongoing test series.
Once all the grit has been projected, attach a strip of adhesive tape of approximately 120 mm to 150 mm length to
the exposed test panel and press it down firmly onto the surface. Bend one end of the tape strip upwards and pull
the strip off with a jerk (at an angle of 90° to the test panel) to remove chips of paint that have not been completely
separated from the panel.
9 
Evaluation
Evaluate the damage on the exposed test area by comparison with the reference standards shown in Figure 3. The
comparison can be done visually or by means of optical imaging in accordance with ISO 21227-2. The standards
represent ratings from 0,5 to 5,0, so when recording the test result, indicate decimal fractions.


ISO/FDIS 20567-1:2004(E)
4
© ISO 2004 – All rights reserved
In addition to the degree of chipping, specify, if possible, the main separation level or the layers of the paint system
between which loss of adhesion occurred.
10 Precision
10.1 Repeatability limit (r)
The absolute difference between two test results found on identical test material by one operator using the same
apparatus within the shortest feasible time interval will exceed the repeatability limit (r) on average not more in 20
cases in the normal and correct operation of the method.
The value for r is 0,5 rating.
10.2 Reproducibility critical difference (R)
The absolute difference between two final values, each being the mean of two test results, found on identical test
material by different operators using different apparatus will exceed the reproducibility critical difference (R) on
average not more than once in 20 cases in the normal and correct operation of the method.
The value for R is 1,0 rating.
11 Test report
The test report shall contain at least the following information:
a) 
a reference to this part of ISO 20567 (ISO 20567-1);
b) 
all details necessary for complete identification of the product tested (manufacturer, trade name, batch number
etc.);
c) 
material (including thickness) of the substrate and surface preparation details
d) 
method used to apply the product to the substrate, including drying time and conditions for all layers;
conditions under which panels were aged prior to testing, if any;
e) 
details on how the test panels were conditioned for the stone chip test; details on the tests previously done
with the same test panels, if any;
f) 
dry film thickness of the coating, in micrometres, including a reference to the measuring method used in
accordance with ISO 2808 and a note as to whether the tested coating consisted of one single or several
layers;
g) 
temperature and air humidity during the test;
h) 
a reference to the test method used (A, B or C) as well as details on the exposure tests done in addition
(applies to method C only);
i) 
details concerning the chilled iron grit (Manufacturer, trade name, mean particle size);
j) 
designation of the adhesive tape used and adhesive strength in N/25 mm width;
k) 
the result of the test, as specified in clause 9;
l) 
any deviation from the specified test method;
m) the date of testing;


ISO/FDIS 20567-1:2004(E)
© ISO 2004 – All rights reserved
5
n) 
the name of the person who did the test.
