# EN_ISO_2812-1_2007.pdf

BRITISH STANDARD
BS EN ISO 
2812-1:2007
Paints and varnishes — 
Determination of 
resistance to liquids —
Part 1: Immersion in liquids other than 
water
The European Standard EN ISO 2812-1:2007 has the status of a  
British Standard
ICS 87.040
	
	
Licensed copy: The University of Hong Kong, The University of Hong Kong, Version correct as of 09/06/2011 08:11, (c) BSI


BS EN ISO 2812-1:2007
This British Standard was 
published under the authority 
of the Standards Policy and 
Strategy Committee  
on 30 April 2007
© BSI 2007
ISBN 978 0 580 50476 1
National foreword
This British Standard was published by BSI. It is the UK implementation of 
EN ISO 2812-1:2007. This standard, together with BS EN ISO 2812-3:2007 
and BS EN ISO 2812-4:2007, supersedes BS EN ISO 2812-1:1995, which is 
withdrawn. 
The UK participation in its preparation was entrusted to Technical Committee 
STI/10, Test methods for paints.
A list of organizations represented on STI/10 can be obtained on request to its 
secretary.
This publication does not purport to include all the necessary provisions of a 
contract. Users are responsible for its correct application.
Compliance with a British Standard cannot confer immunity from 
legal obligations.
Amendments issued since publication
Amd. No. 
Date
Comments
Licensed copy: The University of Hong Kong, The University of Hong Kong, Version correct as of 09/06/2011 08:11, (c) BSI


EUROPEAN STANDARD
NORME EUROPÉENNE
EUROPÄISCHE NORM
EN ISO 2812-1
January 2007
ICS 87.040
Supersedes EN ISO 2812-1:1994       
English Version
Paints and varnishes - Determination of resistance to liquids -
Part 1: Immersion in liquids other than water (ISO 2812-1:2007)
Peintures et vernis - Détermination de la résistance aux
liquides - Partie 1: Immersion dans des liquides autres que
l'eau (ISO 2812-1:2007)
Beschichtungsstoffe - Bestimmung der Beständigkeit
gegen Flüssigkeiten - Teil 1: Eintauchen in Flüssigkeiten
außer Wasser (ISO 2812-1:2007)
This European Standard was approved by CEN on 23 December 2006.
CEN members are bound to comply with the CEN/CENELEC Internal Regulations which stipulate the conditions for giving this European
Standard the status of a national standard without any alteration. Up-to-date lists and bibliographical references concerning such national
standards may be obtained on application to the CEN Management Centre or to any CEN member.
This European Standard exists in three official versions (English, French, German). A version in any other language made by translation
under the responsibility of a CEN member into its own language and notified to the CEN Management Centre has the same status as the
official versions.
CEN members are the national standards bodies of Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland,
France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal,
Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and United Kingdom.
EUROPEAN COMMITTEE FOR STANDARDIZATION
COMITÉ EUROPÉEN DE NORMALISATION
EUROPÄISCHES KOMITEE FÜR NORMUNG
Management Centre: rue de Stassart, 36    B-1050 Brussels
© 2007 CEN
All rights of exploitation in any form and by any means reserved
worldwide for CEN national Members.
Ref. No. EN ISO 2812-1:2007: E
Licensed copy: The University of Hong Kong, The University of Hong Kong, Version correct as of 09/06/2011 08:11, (c) BSI


 
 
 
 
 
 
Foreword 
 
 
This document (EN ISO 2812-1:2007) has been prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 35 
"Paints and varnishes" in collaboration with Technical Committee CEN/TC 139 "Paints and 
varnishes", the secretariat of which is held by DIN. 
 
This European Standard shall be given the status of a national standard, either by publication of 
an identical text or by endorsement, at the latest by July 2007, and conflicting national standards 
shall be withdrawn at the latest by July 2007. 
 
This document supersedes EN ISO 2812-1:1994. 
 
According to the CEN/CENELEC Internal Regulations, the national standards organizations of 
the following countries are bound to implement this European Standard: Austria, Belgium, 
Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, 
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, 
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and United 
Kingdom. 
 
 
Endorsement notice 
 
The text of ISO 2812-1:2007 has been approved by CEN as EN ISO 2812-1:2007 without any 
modifications. 
 
EN ISO 2812-1:2007
Licensed copy: The University of Hong Kong, The University of Hong Kong, Version correct as of 09/06/2011 08:11, (c) BSI


 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference number
ISO 2812-1:2007(E)
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL 
STANDARD 
ISO
2812-1
Second edition
2007-01-15
Paints and varnishes — Determination of 
resistance to liquids — 
Part 1: 
Immersion in liquids other than water 
Peintures et vernis — Détermination de la résistance aux liquides — 
Partie 1: Immersion dans des liquides autres que l'eau 
 
EN ISO 2812-1:2007
Licensed copy: The University of Hong Kong, The University of Hong Kong, Version correct as of 09/06/2011 08:11, (c) BSI


 
ii 
 
Licensed copy: The University of Hong Kong, The University of Hong Kong, Version correct as of 09/06/2011 08:11, (c) BSI


iii
Contents 
Page 
Foreword............................................................................................................................................................ iv 
1 
Scope ..................................................................................................................................................... 1 
2 
Normative references ........................................................................................................................... 1 
3 
Principle................................................................................................................................................. 1 
4 
Apparatus .............................................................................................................................................. 2 
5 
Test liquids............................................................................................................................................ 2 
6 
Sampling................................................................................................................................................ 2 
7 
Test pieces ............................................................................................................................................ 2 
8 
Procedure .............................................................................................................................................. 3 
9 
Evaluation.............................................................................................................................................. 4 
10 
Precision................................................................................................................................................ 4 
11 
Test report ............................................................................................................................................. 5 
Annex A (informative)  Examples of test liquids.............................................................................................. 6 
Bibliography ....................................................................................................................................................... 7 
 
EN ISO 2812-1:2007
Licensed copy: The University of Hong Kong, The University of Hong Kong, Version correct as of 09/06/2011 08:11, (c) BSI


iv 
 
Foreword 
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies 
(ISO member bodies). The work of preparing International Standards is normally carried out through ISO 
technical committees. Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical committee has been 
established has the right to be represented on that committee. International organizations, governmental and 
non-governmental, in liaison with ISO, also take part in the work. ISO collaborates closely with the 
International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) on all matters of electrotechnical standardization. 
International Standards are drafted in accordance with the rules given in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2. 
The main task of technical committees is to prepare International Standards. Draft International Standards 
adopted by the technical committees are circulated to the member bodies for voting. Publication as an 
International Standard requires approval by at least 75 % of the member bodies casting a vote. 
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent 
rights. ISO shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights. 
ISO 2812-1 was prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 35, Paints and varnishes, Subcommittee SC 9, 
General test methods for paints and varnishes. 
This second edition cancels and replaces the first edition (ISO 2812-1:1993), which has been technically 
revised. The main changes are: 
⎯ the standard has been split into parts 1, 3 and 4 for immersion, absorbent medium and spotting methods; 
⎯ the triplicate test was changed to duplicate; 
⎯ the types of test liquids have been added in an annex. 
ISO 2812 consists of the following parts, under the general title Paints and varnishes — Determination of 
resistance to liquids: 
⎯ Part 1: Immersion in liquids other than water 
⎯ Part 2: Water immersion method 
⎯ Part 3: Method using an absorbent medium 
⎯ Part 4: Spotting methods 
⎯ Part 5: Temperature-gradient oven method 
 
EN ISO 2812-1:2007
Licensed copy: The University of Hong Kong, The University of Hong Kong, Version correct as of 09/06/2011 08:11, (c) BSI


1
Paints and varnishes — Determination of resistance to 
liquids — 
Part 1: 
Immersion in liquids other than water 
1 
Scope 
This part of ISO 2812 specifies general methods for determining the resistance of an individual-layer or multi-
layer system of coating materials to the effects of liquids, other than water, or paste-like products (included 
implicitly in test liquids mentioned in the text). 
These methods enable the testers to determine the effects of the test liquid on the coating and, if necessary, 
to assess the damage to the substrate. 
2 
Normative references 
The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of this document. For dated 
references, only the edition cited applies. For undated references, the latest edition of the referenced 
document (including any amendments) applies. 
ISO 1513, Paints and varnishes — Examination and preparation of samples for testing 
ISO 1514, Paints and varnishes — Standard panels for testing 
ISO 2808, Paints and varnishes — Determination of film thickness 
ISO 3270, Paints and varnishes and their raw materials — Temperatures and humidities for conditioning and 
testing 
ISO 3696, Water for analytical laboratory use — Specification and test methods 
ISO 4628-1, Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of degradation of coatings — Designation of quantity and size 
of defects, and of intensity of uniform changes in appearance — Part 1: General introduction and designation 
system 
ISO 4628-2, Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of degradation of coatings — Designation of quantity and size 
of defects, and of intensity of uniform changes in appearance — Part 2: Assessment of degree of blistering 
ISO 15528, Paints, varnishes and raw materials for paints and varnishes — Sampling 
3 
Principle 
A coated test panel is exposed to a test liquid by immersion in the test liquid. The effects of the exposures are 
assessed in accordance with agreed criteria. 
EN ISO 2812-1:2007
Licensed copy: The University of Hong Kong, The University of Hong Kong, Version correct as of 09/06/2011 08:11, (c) BSI


2 
 
4 
Apparatus 
Ordinary laboratory equipment and the following apparatus. 
4.1 
Vessel, made of inert material, capable of holding the test liquid and test panels. 
4.2 
Heating cabinet, with artificial ventilation, for carrying out the test at higher temperatures (up to 40 °C 
to within ± 3 °C). 
WARNING — To protect against explosion or fire, products containing volatile flammable liquids 
should be handled with care. National regulations should be followed. 
5 
Test liquids 
One or more test liquids, as agreed between interested parties, shall be used. Examples of test liquids are 
given in Annex A. 
6 
Sampling 
Take a representative sample of the coating material to be tested, in accordance with ISO 15528. 
Pretest each sample in accordance with ISO 1513 and prepare it for further testing. 
7 
Test pieces 
7.1 Shape and material 
7.1.1 
Panels 
Unless otherwise agreed, use test panels conforming to the requirements of ISO 1514, with dimensions of 
approximately 150 mm × 100 mm and a thickness of 0,7 mm to 1,0 mm. 
7.1.2 
Rods 
The rod shall be made of steel. One end of a rod shall be rounded, with a radius approximately equal to the 
radius of the rod. 
NOTE 1 
Rods with a length of 150 mm and a diameter of 15 mm are suitable. 
NOTE 2 
Rods are used to eliminate edge effects. 
7.2 Preparation and coating 
7.2.1 
Test panels 
Prepare each test panel as described in ISO 1514 and then coat it by the specified application method with 
the product or system under test. Dry (or stove) and age (if applicable) each coated test panel for the specified 
time under specified conditions. 
For Methods A and B, both sides should preferably be coated and the edges protected. It should be agreed 
whether the reverse side of the panel will be protected with a sufficiently resistant coating, or whether both 
sides of the panel will to be coated with the coating material under test. 
EN ISO 2812-1:2007
Licensed copy: The University of Hong Kong, The University of Hong Kong, Version correct as of 09/06/2011 08:11, (c) BSI
