# gm4465p.pdf

I GENERAL MOTORS ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
I 
Materials and Processes 
- Procedures 
I 
WATER FOG HUMIDITY TEST 
GM4465P 
1 
SCOPE. 
1.1 This standard covers the requirements for testing water 
resistance of coated specimens in saturated water fog condi- 
tions. 
1.2 This standard consists of ASTM D1735 with refinements 
and exceptions specific to GM requirements as specified 
below: 
2 
REFERENCED STANDARDS. 
GM9071P 
ASTM D610 
ASTM D1474 
ASTM B117 
ASTM D7 14 
ASTM D1735 
ASTM D523 
ASTM D1193 
ASTM D2197 
3 
PREPARATION OF TEST SPECIMENS. 
3.1 The methods of application, film thickness, curing and 
conditioning of the test surface shall be as specified, consistent 
with normal product practices (cleaning, pretreatment, etc.). 
3.2 The backs, cut edges of the plated, coated, or duplex 
materials and those areas containing identification marks or in 
contact with the racks or supports shall be protected with a 
suitable coating that is stable under the conditions of the test. 
4 
TEMPERATURE. 
4.1 The temperature within the exposure zone of the closed 
chamber shall be maintained @ 38 + 1°C and recorded contin- 
uously throughout the test duration by an external chart 
recorder (24 h - 7 day recorder recommended). 
5 
WATER QUALITY. 
5.1 The test water shall conform to ‘ljpe IV of specification 
ASTM D1193. 
5.2 The pH of the water system shall be verified at the supply 
and will not require a daily verification of the collected fog. 
6 
ATOMIZATION AND QUALITY OF FOG. 
6.1 At least 2 clean fog collectors shall be placed within the 
exposure zone so that no drops of solution from the test speci- 
mens or any other source shall be collected. The collectors 
shall be placed in the proximity of the test specimens and be 
evenly distributed to produce a representative measure of the 
fog collection rates throughout the chamber. The fog shall be 
such that for each 80 cm2 (approximately 10 cm dia) of hori- 
zontal collecting area there will be collected in each collector 
from 1.0 to 2.0 mL of water per hour based on an average run 
of at least 16 h. 
6.2 Collection rate mapping of a chamber throughout the 
exposure zone to ensure conformance to the collection rate 
requirement is recommended as a means of reducing test vari- 
ability. 
6.3 Air pressure and temperature at the humidifying tower 
shall conform to Appendix Xl.4 of ASTM B117. 
7 
CONTINUITY OF TEST. 
7.1 Test interruptions should be limited to a maximum of 3 in 
any 24 h period. The duration of any single interruption shall 
be limited to a maximum of 10 minutes. If a special test is 
being run which requires longer or more frequent interrup- 
tions, that test shall not be run simultaneously in the same 
chamber with any other test. 
6 
RECORDING OF DATA. 
8.1 A suitable data log sheet is shown in Appendix A. 
9 
EXAMINATION OF SPECIMENS. 
9.1 The following methods of evaluating finish degradation 
are applicable unless otherwise specified: 
Standard Test Method for Specular Gloss (ASTM D523). 
Standard Test Method of Evaluating Degree of Rusting on 
Painted Steel Surfaces (ASTM D610) 
Standard Test Method for Evaluating Degree of Blistering 
of Paints (ASTM D714). 
Standard Test Method for Indentation Hardness of Organic 
Coatings (ASTM D1474). 
Standard Test Method for Adhesion of Organic Coatings 
by Scrape Adhesion (ASTM D2197). 
Tape Adhesion Test for Paint Finishes (GM9071P). 
10 
SAFETY. 
This method may involve hazardous mate- 
rials, operations and equipment. This method does not propose 
to address all the safety problems associated with its use. It is 
the responsibility of the user of this method to establish appro- 
priate safety and health practices and determine the 
applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 
11 
GENERAL 
INFORMATION. 
This standard was 
originated in December 1954. The latest revisions include: 
1.2 ref to ASTM D1735, appendix 
Q Copyright 
JULY 1995 
Gmem 
Motors 
Corporation 
Al Rights Resemd 
JULY 1995 
PAGE 1 
4465P 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GK <yqqbSp 
95 m 
?QQ637? 
nR07;1’7fl 
507 
m 
I 
GENERAL MOTORS ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
I 
Materials and Processes 
- Procedures 
APPENDIX A 
DATA LOG SHEET 
Cabinet ‘lkmperatmw ** 
*Collectors at samples height - 1 nearest to nozzle, 1 furthest from nozzle 
** Temperature reading taken at sample height. 
Water - Tjye IV per ASTM D1193 - Last Date Verified 
4465P 
JULY 1995 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
