# GM9071P-2002.pdf

ENGINEERING
STANDARDS
Test Method
Materials
GM9071P
Tape Adhesion Test for Paint Finishes
© Copyright August 2002 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved
August 2002
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards, Records and Documentation
Page 1 of 6
1 Scope
Note: Nothing in this test method supersedes ap-
plicable laws and regulations unless a specific
exemption has been obtained.
Note: In the event of a conflict between the Eng-
lish and the domestic language, the English lan-
guage shall take precedence.
This standard specifies the test method to be used
for evaluating the adhesion properties of painted
metal and plastic before and after environmental
testing.  This standard describes the cross hatch
tape test (Method A) and X-cut tape test (Method
B).  Paint systems are required to meet the re-
quirements of Method A and/or Method B.  Unless
otherwise specified, when dry film thickness is
greater than 125 µm use X-cut tape test (Method
B).  If neither Method A nor Method B is usable
due to size and/or shape constraints (typically
found in small parts) the sense of the test shall be
utilized.
2 References
Note: Only the latest approved standards are ap-
plicable unless otherwise specified.
2.1 Normative.
ASTM D3330M
ASTM D3652
ASTM D3759
2.2 GM.
GM4365M
GM9035P
3 Test Equipment
3.1 Pressure Sensitive Adhesion Tape.  It is
extremely important that the tape adhesive bonds
to steel with a 180 degree peel strength value of at
least 430 N/m.  Weaker adhesives will reduce the
severity of the test results.  The tape backing
should exhibit low elongation.  The following
describes 
the 
various 
parameters 
of 
the
recommended tape:
3.1.1 Nominal Dimensions.
   Width……………………………………….20 mm
   Thickness, total ASTM D3652M………0.14 mm
   Thickness, backing ASTM D3759M…..0.08 mm
3.1.2 Properties.
   Peel strength, steel ASTM D3330M 430 N/m min
   Tensile strength ASTM D3759M…….7kN/m nom
   Elongation ASTM D3759M……………..5 % nom
3.1.3 Shelf Life…………………….12 months max.
3M610, 3M670 or 3M898 have been found
suitable for this purpose.  Other tape sources
should be compared to both the above parameters
and the above tape source.  GM9035P modified
for infrared analysis of tape may also be used to
determine the equivalency.
3.2 Sharp pointed razor knife, razor blade, or
Gardco paint adhesion tester (P-A-T) cutting tool.
3.3 Rubber eraser (pencil type) or equivalent
instrument for applying tape.
3.4 A cutting guide can be used for Method A, if
the cutting tool is not available.
4 Test Material
4.1 When specified the coated test specimens
shall be subjected to an environmental test, such
as water immersion, humidity or salt spray test,
etc. before conducting the tape adhesion test.  In
this case, conduct the environmental test as
required and dry the samples by blotting with
absorbent paper or cloth.
4.2 
The 
recovery 
time 
after 
exposure
environmental 
cycle 
tests 
and 
before 
tape
adhesion tests shall be 10 to 15 minutes unless
otherwise 
specified 
in 
the 
appropriate
specifications (Example: GM4365M or 998XXXX).
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM9071P
GM ENGINEERING STANDARDS
© Copyright August 2002 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved
Page 2 of 6
August 2002
4.3 Multiple 
tape 
adhesion 
tests 
shall 
be
conducted (minimum of three, space permitting –
larger parts will require more and should consider
geometric 
configuration 
and 
processing
characteristics, Method A or B).
5 Test Method
5.1 Summary of Test Method. Not applicable.
5.2 Test Sample Preparation. Not applicable.
5.3 Test Procedure
5.3.1 Cross Hatch Tape Test (Method A).
5.3.1.1 Visually examine the sample and record
any adverse conditions such as, scratch marks,
blemishes and other surface imperfections.
5.3.1.2 Oil, wax or any residue on the painted
surface shall be removed prior to test with soap
and water or any other cleaner not detrimental to
paint.
5.3.1.3 Select a representative area or an area
suspected of having poor film adhesion on the
paint surface to be tested.  Do not select sagged,
solvent popped or other obviously defective areas
as these defects should be rated separately.
5.3.1.4 Make the cross hatch cut with the sharp
cutting tool.  The number of lines and spacing
between lines shall depend upon the coating film
thickness as shown in Table 1.  Make all cuts
about 20 mm long.  Cut through the film to the
substrate in one steady motion using just sufficient
pressure on the cutting tool to have the cutting
edge reach the substrate.  When making
successive single cuts with the aid of a guide,
place the guide on the uncut area.  Make the
additional number of cuts perpendicular and
centered on the original cuts.  Avoid cutting so
deeply that the substrate is displaced.
Table 1:  Cross Hatch Tape Test Cuts
Dry Film
Thickness
(µm)
Spacing (mm)
No. of Cuts
(in 
each
direction)
≤ 50
1
11
50 - 125
2
6
≥ 125(Note 1)
-
-
Note 1:  When dry film thickness of the coating is thicker than 125
µm use X-cut tape test (Method B).
5.3.1.5 After making the required cuts, brush the
film lightly with a soft brush or tissue to remove
any detached flakes or ribbons of coatings.
5.3.1.6 
Dispense 
or 
cut 
a 
strip 
of 
tape
approximately 75 mm long being careful not to
allow the adhesive side to come in contact with
anything before the test application.  Place the
center of the tape over the grid so that the tape
covers the cross hatch diagonally.  See Figure 1.
5.3.1.7 Press the tape down firmly to the surface
with sufficient rubs of the eraser to remove air
bubbles and to insure good contact between the
tape and paint surface.
5.3.1.8 After approximately 5 to 10 s, grasp tail
end of tape between thumb and forefinger and pull
upward with a rapid jerking motion perpendicular
to the paint film.
5.3.1.9 Rate Adhesion per Figure 2. Paint
adhesion should be reviewed on both the part and
the tape.
5.3.2 X-Cut Tape Test (Method B).
5.3.2.1 Visually examine the sample in the as-
received condition; record any adverse conditions
such as scratch marks, etc.
5.3.2.2 Oil, wax or any residue on the surface of
the paint shall be removed prior to test with soap
and water or any other cleaner not detrimental to
the paint.
5.3.2.3 Select a representative area or an area
suspected of having poor film adhesion on the
paint surface to be tested.  Do not select sagged,
solvent popped or other obviously defective areas
as these defects should be rated separately.
5.3.2.4 With a sharp pointed razor knife cut an X
(consisting of 2 bisecting lines each approximately
75 mm long through the paint film to the substrate
(see Figure 3).  Use sharp blades, as dull blades
tend to cause lower ratings.  When cutting, hold
knife perpendicular to the surface and avoid any
side motion.  For relatively soft substrates, such as
plastics, avoid cutting so deeply that the substrate
is displaced.
5.3.2.5 After making the required cuts, brush the
film lightly with a soft brush or tissue to remove
any detached flakes or ribbons of coatings.
5.3.2.6 
Dispense 
or 
cut 
a 
strip 
of 
tape
approximately 125 to 150 mm long, being careful
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM ENGINEERING STANDARDS
GM9071P
© Copyright August 2002 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved
August 2002
Page 3 of 6
not to allow the adhesive side to come in contact
with anything before the test application.
5.3.2.7 Cover the X with tape so that the tape is
centered over the intersection and extends for at
least 38 mm on both sides of the intersection in
the direction of the 25 degree angles.  The
remaining 50 to 75 mm of tape provide a loose tail
on one side to grasp when removing tape.
5.3.2.8 Press the tape down firmly to the surface
with sufficient rubs of the eraser to remove air
bubbles and to insure good contact between the
tape and the paint surface.
5.3.2.9 After approximately 5 to 10 s, grasp tail
between thumb and forefinger and pull upward
with a rapid jerking motion perependicular to the
paint film.
5.3.2.10 Estimate the percentage area of paint not
removed by the tape test area of 20 x 75 mm
(1500 mm2) as shown in Figure 5.  Paint adhesion
should be reviewed on both the part and the tape.
5.3.2.11 If the area to be tested on the painted
sample is less than the standard tape test area,
then utilize the sense of the test in reporting the
percentage area remaining on the surface.  One
(1) commonly used variation is shown in Figure 4.
6 Evaluation and Rating
7 Report
7.1 Method A.  Record the tape adhesion rating
per Figure 2.
7.2 Method B.  Record the tape adhesion rating
as the percentage of area of paint remaining in the
standard tape test area (see Figure 5), and the
type of removal (see Figure 6).
7.3 Record the failure mode indicating where the
failure occurred, that is, within substrate, between
first coat and substrate, between first and second
coat, etc.
7.4 Submit both painted sample and tape for
review.  Tape should be submitted on an overhead
or on a white sheet of paper.  Tape should never
be placed back on the sample.
Figure 1: Cross Hatch Test (Method A)
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM9071P
GM ENGINEERING STANDARDS
© Copyright August 2002 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved
Page 4 of 6
August 2002
Figure 2: Classification of Cross Hatch Test Results
g790(04/01)
Greater than 65 %
tape are acceptable
Note: Visible gridlines on the
tape) from which flaking has occured
Surface of cross hatch area (or of
85-95 %
65-85 %
35-65 %
<35 %
>99 %
100 %
>95 %
% Paint
Remaining
Figure 3: X-Cut Test
Figure 4: Example of X-Cut Test (Small Area)
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM ENGINEERING STANDARDS
GM9071P
© Copyright August 2002 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved
August 2002
Page 5 of 6
Figure 5:  Classification of X-Cut Test Results
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM9071P
GM ENGINEERING STANDARDS
© Copyright August 2002 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved
Page 6 of 6
August 2002
Figure 6: Type of Removal
8 Safety
This method may involve hazardous materials,
operations and equipment.  This method does not
propose to address all the safety problems associ-
ated with its use.  It is the responsibility of the user
of this method to establish appropriate safety and
health practices and determine the applicability of
regulatory limitations prior to use.
9 Coding system
This material specification shall be given in other
documents, drawings, VTS, CTS etc. as follows:
Test to GM9071P
10 Release and Revisions
10.1 Release. This test method originated in 1970.
10.2 Revisions.
Rev
Date
Description (Organization)
G
JUN 2001
Reformatted Revision (GMNA)
H
AUG 2002
Correction on Figure 2
(GMNA)
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
