# GM9540P-1997.pdf

VND.GM 
Gtl=l5~UP-ENGL 
1997 
- 
900b379 
OOl,2L3l, 
228 
m 
I 
GENERAL MOTORS ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
I 
Materials and PFocesses - Procedures 
ACCELERATED CORROSION TEST 
GM9540P 
1 SCOPE. 
This procedure &scribes an accelerated labo- 
ratory corrosion test method to evaluate assemblies and 
components. The test procedure provides a combination of 
cyclic conditions (salt solution, various temperatures, humid- 
ity, and ambient environment) to accelerate metallic corrosion. 
The procedure is effective for evaluating a variety of corrosion 
mechanisms, such as general, galvanic, crevice, etc. The test 
duration can be individually tailored to achieve any desired 
level of corrosion exposure. 
Also, synergistic effects due to temperature, mechanical and 
electrical cycling can be comprehended by this test. See 
Appendix A for typical modifications. 
NOTE: Test durations A and B can be used as both QC tests 
and validation tests depending on the purpose of the test. Test 
durations C and D or any modified test are to be used for vali- 
dation and development purposes. 
1.1 The test method is comprised of 1.25% (0.9% sodium 
chloride, 0.1% calcium chloride and 0.25% sodium bicarbon- 
ate) salt mist applications coupled with high temperature and 
high humidity and moderately high temperature dry off. It 
requires a 16 h work day or an automatic cycling test chamber. 
IMPORTANT: Engineering drawings and material specifica- 
tions that reference this test procedure must specify the test 
duration, (A, B, C or D) or the number of test cycles as indi- 
cated in Table 1. (Example, GM954OP. Test Duration B.) In 
addition, the criteria for making pass/fail determinations must 
be specified. Test durations A and B can be used for quality 
control and validation procedures as appropriate. Longer test 
durations (C and D) and tests involving modifications are to be 
used for validation purposes only. 
Test Method 
Coupons Required 
(mm> 
TABLE 1 - CYCLES (APPROXIMATE) FOR TARGET MASS LOSS 
‘I&t Duration 
A 
B 
C 
8 Cycles 
16 Cycles 
40 Cycles 
2 
4 
10 
D 
80 Cycles 
20 
TABLE 2 - MASS LOSS TARGET RANGES, mg*(AT THE END OF TEST) 
Initial coupon Thickness 
Test Duration 
x 
nun 
in 
A 
B 
C 
D 
0.79 
l/32 
8281228 
1496-1896 
3210-3810 
6038-6638 
1.59 
l/16 
874-1274 
15741974 
3378-3978 
63456945 
3.18 
l/8 
9651375 
1731-2131 
3712-4312 
6957-7557 
6.35 
l/4 
1147-1547 
2043-2443 
4379-4979 
8178-8778 
* These mass loss values correspond to the test duration requirements listed in Table 1 above and are applicable to the standard test procedure only. 
Modifications to the test may or may not attaiu equivalent levels of mass loss. 
NOTE 1: A cycle is made up of the daily events or test inputs 
prescribed in Table 4. A cycle normally requires 1 day to com- 
plete. The test duration is dictated by the number of test cycles. 
NOTE 2: A phase is made up of a predetermined number of 
cycles, 8 cycles constitute 1 phase. 
NOTE 3: The coupon mass loss values shown in Table 2 are 
used to verify that the correct amount of corrosion has been 
produced by the test, 
2 
REFERENCED STANDARDS. 
GM4465P 
GM9508P 
GM9102P 
ASTM B117 
3 
EQUIPMENT AND TEST MATERIAL. 
3.1 TEST EQUIPMENT. 
3.1.1 Fog Humidity Cabinet The humidity cabinet shall be 
as specified by GM4465P and Table 3. (Water fog or visible 
water droplets on parts - continuous after equilibrium is 
reached.) 
3.1.2 Salt Mist Application. The salt mist solution shall be as 
specified in Table 3. The solution shall be. sprayed as a mist 
(for example, from a plastic bottle onto the test samples and 
coupons). The spray nozzle shall be such that the salt solution 
is atomized into a mist as required. A siphon spray powered by 
oil-free regulated air or a hand operated pump spray may also 
be used The quantity of spray applied should be sufficient to 
rinse away any salt accumulation left from previous sprays. 
(Test samples and coupons shall be thoroughly wet/dripping.) 
DECEMBER 1997 
PAGE 1 
954OP 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


VND.GM 
GM=l54ClP-ENGL 
I,997 
m 
=lllClb37=l 
llOl,2L32 
Lbll 
m 
I GENERAL MOTORS ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
I 
Materials and Processqs - Procedures 
I 
ACCELERATED CORROSION TEST 
GM9540P 
3.1.3 Dryoff Environment. The dryoff environment area 
shall be maintained with sufficient air circulation to prevent 
temperature stratification, and also allow thorough drying of 
the material. The temperature and humidity conditions are 
shown in Table 3. 
TABLE 3 - TEST PARAMETERS 
Test Equipment 
Test Method 
Fog Humidity 
GM4465P @ 49 
f 2°C 
Cabinet Tempemture 
Salt Solution 
Sodium Chloride, % 
0.9** 
Calcium Chloride, % 
0.1 
NaI-ICO, Concentration, % 
0.25 
Salt Solution pH 
6-9 
Dryoff Environment 
Temperature 
60 f 2°C 
Humidity 
c 30% RH 
Ambient Temperature 
25 f 2°C 
Ambient Humidity 
40-50% RI-I 
l * For spray solution, either CaCI, or NaHCO, material must be 
dissolved separately in water and added to the solution of the other 
materials. If all solid materials are added &an insoluble precipitate 
may nsu.It 
3.2 TEST MATERULS. 
3.2.1 Corrosion Coupons. Coupons consist of 25.4 mm wide 
x 50.8 mm long pieces of bar AISI 1006-1010 steel. Four (4) 
coupon thicknesses are available as shown in Table 2. The 
coupons serve to monitor the average general bare steel corro- 
sion produced by the test environment. 
3.2.1.1 Coupon thickness selection will be dictated by indi- 
vidual test needs. However, thicker coupon sizes should be 
used for tests with long durations. 
NOTE: Do not intermix different coupon thickness on the 
same coupon rack. 
3.2.2 Test Samples. Test samples shall be representative of 
production intent. Sample size shall be consistent with durabil- 
ity requirements determined by the appropriate Material/ 
Corrosion Engineering department. 
4 TEST PROCEDURE. 
4.1 COUPON/TEST SAMPLE PREPARATION. 
4.1.1 Each coupon shall be permanently identified by stamp- 
ing numbers onto the surface. 
4.1.2 Corrosion coupons can be cleaned with methanol or 
acetone solution and accurately weighed prior to use. The 
weight, in milligrams (mg), shall be recorded and retained for 
future reference. 
NOTE: It is critical that all forming or preservation oils/lubes 
be removed prior to exposure to allow for general/uniform cor- 
rosion of the coupon. This process can be aided by using a 
commercial grade degreaser prior to methanol or acetone 
clean. 
4.2 COUPON RACK PREPARATION. Prior to start of test, 
prepare the coupon rack with sufficient coupons to monitor the 
Wt. 
4.2.1 The coupons shall be secured to an aluminum or non- 
metallic coupon rack with fasteners as shown in Figure 1. The 
bolt, nut and washers shall be made from a non black plastic 
material, preferably nylon. Figure 1 shows a completed cou- 
pon rack configuration. The number of coupons required for 
different test durations are shown in Table 1. 
4.2.2 The exact location of each coupon on the rack shall be 
identified and recorded using the prestamped numbers for ref- 
erence as ill~trated in Figure 1. 
4.2.3 Allow a minimum 5 mm spacing between the coupons 
and the rack surface. All coupons shall be secured at most 15’ 
from vertical and must not contact each other. 
4.2.4 T’he coupon rack shall be placed in the general vicinity 
of the parts being tested, such that the coupons receive the 
same environmental exposure as the test samples. 
0 Copyight 
DECEMBER 
1937 C%EA 
Motors 
Cocpo* 
All .F@ts 
Reserved 
954OP 
PAGE 2 
DECEMBER 1997 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


VND.G~~ 
GM~~~~P-ENGL 
1977 
m mob377 
0032333 
17~0 m 
1 
GENERAL MOTORS ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
Materials and Processes - Procedures 
ACCELERATED CORROSION TEST 
GM9540P 
COUPON 
RACK POSITION 
NUMBER 
NOTE: THE RACK ABOVE SHOWS 5 COUPON 
POSITIONS. 
THE NUMBER 
OF 
COUPON 
POSITIONS 
IS DICTATED 
BY INDIVIDUAL 
TEST NEEDS. 
NYLON MOUNTING 
- 
BOLT 
- 
NUT 
- 
WASHERS 
STEEL COUPON 
FASTENER 
SPACING 
COUPON 
RACK 
ALUMINUM 
OR NONMETALIC 
MATERIAL 
END 
VIEW 
9540-001(6/97) 
FIGURE 1 - COUPON RACK ASSEMBLY 
DECEMBER 1997 
954OP 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


VND.GM 
GM=i54ClP-ENGL 
L79-7 
- 
90Db379 
0022134 
T37 
- 
I GENERAL MOTORS ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
I 
Materials and Processes - Procedures 
I 
ACCELERATED CORROSION TEST 
GM9540P 
4.3 TEST METHOD. See Table 4 for the steps that comprise 
the test method. Repeat the cycle daily as necessary until the 
test duration requirements are met. At the option of the test 
requester, the test can be continued throughout weekends to 
decrease the over all test time. 
4.3.1 For each salt mist application, use the sprayer to mist 
the samples and coupons until all areas are thoroughly wet. 
The mist application occurs while the samples and coupons are 
in the ambient environment. The times in Table 4 for the salt 
mist application can be varied by f 30 minutes, as long as the 
parts are visibly dry before each application. 
TABLE 4 - TEST METHOD 
Time* 
Event 
6:ooam 
Salt mist application (in ambient env) 
7:30 am 
Salt mist application (in ambient env) 
9:oo am 
Salt mist application (in ambient env) 
lo:30 am 
Salt mist application (in ambient env) 
2:00 pm 
8 h humidity cabinet exposure including 1 h 
ramp to wet conditions 
1O:OO 
pm 
8 h dry environmental exposure including 3 
h ramp to dry conditions 
Weekends 
Ambient environment 
*limes are shown for example purposes only. The test can be started 
at any time with the under3anding that 24 h constitutes 1 cycle. 
NOTE: If gravelometer exposure is required, test samples (not 
coupons) may be exposed to gravelometer testing per GM9508P 
before or during exposure. 
NOTE: If specimen scribing is rc@ed, on either test panels or parts, 
follow the methods described in GM9102P. This method also includes 
m-t 
of cormsion creepback f&n a scribe line, and dcscriis 
how to evaluate corrosion formation in unscribed areas. These 
methods should be used when reporting test results unless stated 
otherwise on drawings or agreed upon by test requcstor and testor. 
4.4 TEST ACCELERATION. Humidity ramp times between 
the ambient and wet condition and between the wet and dry 
conditions are critical to test acceleration (this is because cor- 
rosion rates are highest during this transition period). 
Typically, the time from ambient to the wet condition should 
be approximately 1 h and the transition time between wet and 
dry conditions should be approximately 3 h. If a test is con- 
ducted with ramp times different than described above, the 
number of cycles to reach coupon mass loss targets may 
increase or decrease. Test acceleration can be optimized and 
tracked by using standard corrosion coupons as monitoring 
devices. Ramp time is to be included as part of the specified 
exposure period. 
4.5 TEST MONlTORING. 
Corrosion coupons shall be 
removed and analyzed after each phase throughout the test to 
monitor the corrosion. To analyze coupons remove 1 coupon 
from each end of the rack and prepare for weighing and mass 
loss determination. (EXAMPLE: For a B duration, 2 coupons 
are removed and analyzed after 8 cycles, and another 2 cou- 
pons after 16 cycles.) 
4.51 Before weighing, clean the coupons using a mild sand 
blast process to remove all corrosion by-products from the 
coupon surface. W5pe the coupons free of grit and weigh to 
determine the coupon mass loss using the formti 
Mass Less - (Initial Mass) - (End-of-Phase Mass) 
4.5.2 Compare the actual mass loss to the targeted values. 
Refer to Table 2 for targeted mass loss values, in milligrams, 
for various test durations as a function of the coupon’s original 
thickness. 
NOTE: Coupon mass loss targets for every phase are not 
included in Table 2. To check test progress and assure that the 
test is being run correctly, assume a linear corrosion rate. Thus, 
if the test is 40% complete the coupon mass loss value should 
be approximately 40% of the end-of-test targeted range. 
NOTE If the actual mass loss does not coincide with the tar- 
geted values listed in Table 2 the test should be repeated. Also, 
the reasons why the targeted value(s) was not obtained should 
be investigated and corrected before resuming the test. 
4.6 INSPECTION. The test sample(s) shall be inspected for 
corrosion and photographed at the end of predetermined 
cycles. If plastic materials am being tested any discoloration or 
degradation and/or adhesive bond failure (delamination) shall 
be noted and recorded. 
4.7 END OF TEST. At the end of test the samples shall be 
rinsed with fresh tap water and allowed to dry before evaluat- 
ing. One (1) test cycle is equal to 24 h, 1 phase is equal to 8 
cycles. 
5 REPORT. 
In addition to the sample data and test 
results, reports must indicate the total number of cycles run, 
any modifications to the test (see Appendix A), the Equipment 
and Test Record Form (Appendix B) and should include pho- 
tographic documentation and the coupon mass loss values. 
6 SAFETY. 
This method may involve hazardous materi- 
als, operations and equipment. This method does not propose 
to address all the safety problems asso

VND.GM 
GM=i5~0P-ENGL 
L=i=i7 
D 
9IICIb379 
0022335 
973 
I 
1 
GENERAL MOTORS ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
1 
Materials and Processes 
- Procedures 
1 
ACCELERATE~MXX~OSION 
TEST 
APPENDIX A 
Al 
MODIFICATIONS. 
These procedure modifications 
are based on field knowledge combined with engineering judg- 
ment to enhance the test’s ability to predict field performance. 
Prior to making additional modifications or to assist in deter- 
mining the appropriateness 
of one of the following 
modifications, please contact either the platform materials 
group, NAO Materials and Fastening Engineering or the NAO 
Validation/QRD Center - Corrosion Engineering Group. 
A2 
TEST, 
The test is generally made up of 3 shifts: An 
Ambient Shij? (8 h) in which salt sprays are conducted, a Wet 
Shift (8 h) in which parts are soaked at 49’C (120-F) and 
100% RI-I, and a Dry shifi (8 h) in which parts are soaked at 
60°C (140°F) and I 30% RH. 
A2.1 AMBIENT SHlFI’. The ambient shift can be modified 
to include additional test inputs such as dust, grit sprays, 
mechanical cycling, electrical cycling, thermal inputs, grav- 
elometer and acid rain spray. 
A2.2 WET SHIFT. vpically no modifications of this shift- 
A2.3 DRY SHIFT. Typically no modifications of this shift. 
A3 TEST SPECIMEN. 
If possible, mount test speci- 
mens in a production representative orientation simulating on- 
vehicle inputs (e.g., puddling of fluids, shielding of splash, 
wicking of fluids, etc.). 
A4 
EXAMPLES OF MODIFICATIONS. 
A4.1 OPTION 
I 
- 
A/C 
COMPRESSOR TEST 
MODIFICATIONS. 
Ambient Soak (8 h). 
1 salt spray on 1st cycle - compressor running 
1 grit spray on seventh cycle - compressors static 
1.5 h of compressor run time (cycling 12 s on/3 s off) 
Wet Soak 12o’F/lOD% RI-I (8 h) 
Dry Soak 14O’F/I 30% RH (8 h) 
1 test cycle is equal to 24 h, 1 phase is equal to 8 cycles. 
Expected test duration to evaluate functional corrosion is 
10 phases. 
A4.2 OPTION II - TRANSMISSION OIL COOLER LINE 
TEST MODIFICATIONS. 
Oven Soak 250°F (2 h). 
Ambient Soak (6 h) 
4 salt sprays - starting at the end of the 2nd h of the 
ambient soak, spaced 1 h apart 
Wet Soak 12O’F/lOO% RH (8 h) 
Dry Soak 14O”F/I 30% RH (8 h) 
1 test cycle is equal to 24 h, 1 phase is equal to 8 cycles. 
Expected test duration to evaluate functional corrosion is 
10 phases. 
A4.3 OPTION III - SIDE DOOR LATCHES AND HOOD 
LATCHES 
(ASSUMES 
PROTECTION) TEST MODIFICENS. 
WEATHERSEAL 
Ambient Soak (8 h). 
1 salt spray per cycle 
1 dust application at the beginning of each phase (see 
Appendix C) 
Wet Soak 12O’F/lOO% RI-I (8 h) 
Dry Soak 14O’F/I 30% RI-I (8 h) 
Fresh water rinse at the end of each phase 
1 test cycle is equal to 24 h, 1 phase is equal to 8 cycles. 
Expected test duration to evaluate functional corrosion is 
10 phases. 
A4.4 OPTION IV - DOOR HINGES, HOOD HINGES, FUEL 
FILER DOOR HARDWARE, AND DECKLID HINGES 
(ASSUMES NO WEATHERSEAL PROTECTION) TEST 
MODIFICATIONS 
Ambient Soak (8 h). 
1 salt spray per cycle 
1 dust application at the beginning of each phase (see 
Appendix C) 
Wet Soak 12o’F/lOO% RH (8 h) 
Dry Soak 14O”F/~ 30% RH (8 h) 
1 test cycle is equal to 24 h, 1 phase is equal to 8 cycles. 
Expected test duration to evaluate functional corrosion is 
10 phases. 
A4.5 OPTION 
V 
- 
KEY 
CYLINDERS 
TEST 
MODIFICATIONS. 
Ambient Soak (8 h). 
1 hose salt spray per cycle (see Appendix D) 
1 dust application (both sides of test sample in future) 
at the beginning of each phase (see Appendix C) 
Wet Soak 12O”F/lOO% RI-I (8 h) 
Dry Soak 14o”F/I 30% RH (8 h) 
1 test cycle is equal to 24 h, 1 phase is equal to 8 cycles. 
Expected test duration to evaluate functional corrosion is 
10 phases. 
A4.6 OPTION VI - DECKLID LATCH (also applicable to 
other latches which have weatherseal protection) and 
DECKLlD HINGES (with weatherseal protection) test modifi- 
cations. 
Ambient Soak (8 h). 
1 salt spray per phase 
Wet Soak 12O’F/lOO% RH (8 h) 
Dry Soak 14O”F/& 30% RH (8 h) 
Q Copyight 
DECEMBER 
1937 Genei 
Motors 
Ccqmatkm 
AlI Rights 
Rsserved 
DECEMBER 1997 
PAGE 5 
954OP 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


VND.GM 
GM7540P-ENGL 
I1997 
- 
900b379 
00L213b 
BUT 
m 
I GENERAL MOTORS ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
I 
Materials and Processes 
- Procedures 
I 
ACCELERATED CORROSION TEST 
GM9540P 
APPENDIX A 
1 test cycle is equal to 24 h, 1 phase is equal to 8 cycles. 
Expected test duration to evaluate functional corrosion is 
10 phases. 
A4.7 OPTION 
VII 
- 
DOOR 
DETENT 
TEST 
MODIFICATIONS. 
Use Option IV - for door detents without weatherseal pro- 
tection 
Use Option VI - for door detents with weatherseal protec- 
tion 
1 test cycle is equal to 24 h, 1 phase is equal to 8 cycles. 
Expected test duration to evaluate functional corrosion is 
10 phases. 
A4.8 OPTION VIII - DOOR CAVITY HARDWARE TEST 
MODIFICAmONS. 
Ambient Soak (8 h). 
1 salt spray per cycle 
1 dust application at the beginning of phases 0, 3, 6 
and 9 (see Appendix C) 
Wet Soak 12o’F/lOO% RI-I (8 h) 
Dry Soak 14O’F/I 30% RI-I (8 h) 
Fresh water rinse at the end of each phase 
1 test cycle is equal to 24 h, 1 phase is equal to 8 cycles. 
Expected test duration to evaluate functionaI corrosion is 
10 phases. 
A4.9 OPTION IX- 
EXHAUST 
MANIFOLD, 
FLEX 
COUPLING TEST MODIFICATIONS. 
Oven Soak 900°F (4 h) 
Ambient Soak (4 h). 
4 salt sprays starting at the end of the 1st h of the 
ambient soak period spaced 1 h apart 
Wet Soak 12o’F/lOO% RI-I (8 h) 
Dry Soak 14O’F/S 30% RI-I (8 h) 
1 test cycle is equal to 24 h, 1 phase is equal to 8 cycles. 
Expected test duration to evaluate functional corrosion is 
10 phases. 
A4.10 OPTION 
X 
- 
MUFFLER/TAILPIPE 
TEST 
MODIFICATIONS. 
Oven Soak 400~SOO’F 
(4 h) 
Ambient Soak (4 h). 
4 salt sprays starting at the end of the 1st h of the 
ambient soak period spaced 1 h apart 
Wet Soak 12O”F/lOO% RH (8 h) 
Dry Soak 14O’F/I 30% RH (8 h) 
1 test cycle is equal to 24 h, 1 phase is equal to 8 cycles. 
Expected test duration to evaluate functional corrosion is 
10 phases. 
A4.11 OPTION 
XI 
- 
INTERIOR 
(PASSENGER 
COMPARTMENT) CORROSION ENVIRONMENT TEST 
MODIFICATIONS. 
Ambient Soak (8 h). 
Salt spray frequency options 
1 only at beginning of 1 st cycle if under dash (mid 
to high mount) location 
1 each at beginning of lst, 5th, and 12th cycles if 
floorpan (low mount) location 
Wet Soak 12O’F/lOO% RH (8 h) 
Dry Soak 14o”FK 30% RI-I (8 h) 
1 test cycle is equal to 24 h, 1 phase is equal to 8 cycles. 
Typical test duration is 4 cycles for under dash (mid to 
high mount) locations and 12 cycles for floorpan (low 
mount) locations which approximately equals 10 yeurscos- 
metic corrosion exposure. 
A5 
ADDITIONAL OPTIONS. 
Additional options can be 
customized to specific components or subsystems to increase 
the ability to conduct validation or development testing. Please 
see the platform materials engineer, NAO Materials and 
Fastening Group 
OT NAO Validation/QRD Center - Corrosion 
Engineering Group for assistance. Any option changes not 
called out specitically in this Appendix must be included on 
the engineering drawing. 
954OP 
PAGE 6 
DECEMBER 1997 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


VND.GM 
GM=l540P-ENGL 
I,997 
H 
=lOClb37=l 
OClL2L37 
74b 
H 
GENERAL MOTORS ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
I 
Materials and Processes 
- Procedures 
I 
ACCELERATE~M’OOpROSION TEST 
APPENDIX B 
EQUIPMENT AND TEST RECORD FORM 
81 
TEST EQUIPMENT. 
Test equipment used shall be 
Dehumidification Process 
documented and include the following information: 
Type of Control 
Recorder Y/N, if yes, what is recorded? 
Size/Capacity 
Calibration Process 
Model 
Temperature Range 
Heating Process 
cooling Process 
Circulation Process 
PH 
Calibration Frequency/Last Occurrence 
Frequency of Changes of the Salt Solution (recommend 
W-MY) 
Conductivity of salt solution 
Collection rate (recommend 4-8 mL/h/80 cm* k 0.5 mL/ 
k> 
Method of salt application 
Humidity Range 
Humidification Process 
Volume of Salt Immersion Tank 
Average Ambient Temperature and Range During Test 
If a recorder is in use, cycle profiles should be submitted with 
test sample data. If a recorder is not in use, written documenta- 
tion should be provided indicating typical steady state 
conditions and the ramp times between steady states condi- 
tions. 
DECEMBER 1997 
PAGE 7 
954OP 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


VND.GM 
GM=l540P-ENGL 
la777 
- 
=lllOb379 
UiJl,2l,38 
b&F’ I 
I GENERAL MOTORS ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
I 
Materials and Processes 
- Procedures 
I 
ACCELERATE~Mf~~pROSION 
TEST 
APPENDIX C 
DUST APPLICATION/SPECIFICATION 
Cl 
DUST TYPE. 
Arizona Dust, typically fine grade, as 
procured from Pow&r Technology Incorporated of BumsvilIe, 
Minnesota, (612) 894-8737 or as prepared by Delphi-E (P/N 
1543094) with the following particle size distribution by vol- 
ume (measured with an L&N microtrac analyzer as referenced 
on the product label): 
Micrometers 
I 
% Less Than 
5.5 
38 f 3 
C2 SPRAY APPARATUS. 
Modify a garden duster to 
accept an air line connection where the manual pump lever is 
located (remove the manual pump lever and attach a fitting to 
accept the air line). Garden dusters with an 8 mm diameter 
hole for dust application are recommended to achieve the 
appropriate level of dust application. Garden dusters from the 
following manufacturers could be modifiedz Hudson Sprayer, 
Hudson Mfg. Co., Chicago, IL or R.L. Corporation, Lowell, 
MT (a division of Root-Lowell Manufacturing). 
11 
54f 3 
22 
71+3 
44 
89 f 3 
176 
I 
100 
C3 DUST APPLICATION. 
Using 25 to 30 psi of air line 
pressure, apply a dust mist for approximately 1 s such that 1 g 
f 0.25 g of dust is applied to the part Keep the applicator agi- 
tated to ensure proper dust application (agitate/shake duster 
between applications.) 
DECEMBER 1997 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


VND.GM 
GM954ClP-ENGL 
L=l=i7 
- 
=lllUb37=i 
0032339 
!?,I,=! I 
I 
GENERAL MOTORS ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
I 
Materials and Processes 
- Procedures 
I 
ACCELERATEtMfEoRpROSION TEST 
APPENDIX D 
- 
THERE 
MUST 
BE NO DEPOSIT 
OF WATER 
ON ASSY 
ON 
THIS 
SIDE 
OF BUCK 
AFTER 
WATER 
SPRAY, 
EXCEPT 
DRAINAGE 
THROUGH 
DRAIN 
GROOVE. 
-.----2 
RETAINER 
y 
18’ 
FOR DOOR 
LOCK 
CYLINDERS 
_1 
0’ 
FOR COMPT 
LID 
LOCK 
CYLINDERS 
GASKET 
VIEW A - 
BUCK 
FOR DOOR & COMPT 
LID 
LOCK 
CYLS 
FOR CONVENTIONAL 
TYPES 
954C-D01(6/97) 
FIGURE ID - BODY TEST POSITION FOR DOOR AND REAR COMPARTMENT LOCK CYLINDER 
0 Copyright 
DECEhABER 
1997 Generill 
Motors 
Corp~afion 
AI Wghts Reserved 
DECEMBER 1997 
PAGE 9 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
