# GM9531P-1997.pdf

VND.GM 
GM=l53l,P-ENGL 
l,=l77 
- 
7llllb37=i 
0009b05 
183 
- 
I GENERAL MOTORS ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
I 
Materials and Processes - Procedures 
I 
WATER JET TESTS 
GM9531 P 
1 SCOPE. 
This standard describes the test method to test 
the ability of exterior graphics (decals) or painted plastics to 
withstand high pressure wand car wash spray. The procedure 
can also be applied to other materials such as paint, omamen- 
tation, etc. Unless indicated otherwise, use Method A. 
2 TEST APPARATUS. 
2.1 Car wash unit of such design and construction as to main- 
tain a min pressure (at gun tip) of 8500 kPa (1232 psi) for a 
minimum period of 5 s, with gun tip fan angle of 15’ and/or 
25”. 
2.2 Rack or fixture that will support a test panel at a 75 - 200 
mm distance from tip and film edge, and at a 45 - 90” angle of 
film to water spray. Distance and angle should be adjustable. 
2.3 Cutting jig that facilitates making 90’ cuts into the film 
with a razor blade. 
3 TEST PROCEDURE. 
3.1 METHOD A - FOR EXTERNAL GRAPHICS. 
3.1.1 Clean a 51 x 305 mm painted test panel with VM & P 
Naphtha or 50/50 water-isopropyl alcohol. 
3.1.2 Apply a 25 x 203 mm decal using a 2 kg roller, 2 
passes, once in each direction at a rate of 305 mm per minute. 
3.1.3 Cut the decal with a razor blade in a series of cuts on a 
45’ angle spaced 12.7 mm apart. The cutting process is 
repeated with 45” angle cuts made in the opposite direction so 
that finished cuts form 12.7 mm squares and triangles. (Figure 
1.) The cuts must be ma& straight down into the film (90 
angle). A cutting jig will facilitate this cutting process. 
3.2 METHOD B - FOR PAINTED PLASTICS. 
3.2.1 Clean a 51 x 102 mm (or larger) painted test panel or 
part with VM&P Naphtha or 50/50 water - isopropyl alcohol. 
3.2.2 Cut two intersecting sets of 11 parallel cuts through the 
coating to the substrate. Parallel cuts are to have 3 mm spac- 
ing, intersection angles of 90”, and are to be at 90’ to the 
specimen edge. See Figure 2. 
3.3 METHODS A AND B. 
3.3.1 Condition panel for 20 minutes at RT or as required. 
3.3.2 Test run parameters shown in Table 1. 
TABLE 1 - TEST PARAMETERS 
Pressure (at nozzle 
outlet) 
Method A 
Method B 
1232 psi 
1200 psi 
Angle of 
Impingement 
Specimen Scribe 
Pattern 
Temperature of 
Test Specimen 
Duration of 
Impingement 
Nozzle Oscillation 
45’ 
Figure 1 
RT 
5s 
None 
90” 
Figure 2 
RT 
5s 
None 
Performance 
Rating 
mm2 paint 
Measurement 
removed 
4 
EVALUATION OF TEST SPECIMENS. 
4.1 METHOD A - FOR EXTERIOR GRAPHICS. After the 
test is run on duplicate film samples, each affected square or 
triangle is assigned a value of 1, 2, or 3. 
1 Small area of adhesion loss 3 mm or less 
2 Any amount of adhesion loss more than 3 mm but 
short of complete removal of square triangle 
3 Complete removal of square or triangle 
The numerical ratings given each effected area are totalled for 
each film strip and divided by 10. That number is the rating. 
4.2 METHOD B - FOR PAINTED PLASTICS. After the 
test is run in triplicate, total area (mm2) of paint removed both 
inside and outside of the scribed area. Each scribed square is 9 
mm2. 
5 
REPORT. 
5.1 METHOD A - FOR EXTERIOR GRAPHICS. 
The report shall include the following: 
5.1.1 Rating. 
5.1.2 Applied panel conditioning. 
5.1.3 Film construction. 
5.1.4 Water temperature. 
5.1.5 Decal supplier. 
5.1.6 Paint system. 
Q Copyright MARCH 1997 General Motors Corporation Al Rights Reserved 
MARCH 1997 
PAGE 1 
9531 P 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 08/14/2006 22:30:30 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--``,``,,`,,,`,,,,`,,``,````,,,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


VND.GM 
GM=l53LP-ENGL 
1777 
- 
70Db379 
ll009bOb 
CllT - 
I 
GENERAL MOTORS ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
I 
Materials and Processes - Procedures 
I 
WATER JET TESTS 
GM9531 P 
5.2 METHOD B - FOR PAINTED PARTS. 
5.2.1 For each of the 3 samples, report area (mm2) of paint 
removed. Also report average area of paint removed for the 3 
samples (mm2). 
5.2.2 Substrate supplier and designation. 
5.2.3 Paint System supplier and designation. 
5.2.4 Any substrate deformation. 
6 CONTROL. 
A control should be always run unless 
otherwise specified. 
7 
This standard does not propose to address all the safety 
problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the 
user of this standard to establish appropriate safety and health 
practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limita- 
tions prior to use. 
8 GENERAL INFORMATION. 
This newly issued stan- 
dard was originated by CPC. The latest revisions include: 
Rev 1 Date 1 
Description 
A 
1 3197 1 Added Method B 
L 
DIRECTION OF SPRAY 
9531-001(3/89) 
FIGURE 1 - (METHOD A) 
Scribe 
Pattern 
9531-002(3/&) 
FIGURE 2 - (METHOD B) 
Q Cppyight MARCH 1997 Gemd Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
PAGE 2 
MARCH 1997 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Provided by IHS under license with GM 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 08/14/2006 22:30:30 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--``,``,,`,,,`,,,,`,,``,````,,,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
