# GM9769P.txt

1 Scope 

This test procedure defines the process and 
requirements a steel producer or processor 
(electrogalvanized or hot dip galvanized coating 
supplier) must meet to qualify their steel 
products and processing lines. Technical 
approval is required to supply to General Motors 
these materials defined by GM Engineering 
Materials and Process Standards. 

1.1 Material Requirements. The intent of this 
procedure is to obtain information to ascertain a 
steel producers ability to produce and supply 
steel that meets the requirements of GM. 
Emphasis is placed on the steel producers 
ability to supply a uniform and consistent 
product. Some material characteristic and 
attribute data are requested for qualification 
purposes even though they are not requirements 
of the specific GM Standard. 

1.2 Manufacturing Requirements. An 
additional intent of this procedure is, through a 
plant try out, to ascertain the ability of this sheet 
steel to be formed, welded, bonded, cleaned, 
and painted in GM manufacturing and assembly 
operations. 

Note: Nothing in the specification supersedes 
applicable laws and regulations unless specific 
exemption has been obtained. 

Note: In the event of conflict between the 
English and domestic language, the English 
language shall take precedence. 

1.3. Definitions 

1.3.1 Processing Line Definitions. 

1.3.1.1 New Base Metal or Coating. A new or 
significantly changed product from an existing 
process or a new process. Significantly changed 
included, but is not limited to, a new steel 
chemistry, new coating chemistry, change in 
annealing process, change in rolling process, 
etc. 

1.3.1.2 Approved Base Metal or Coating. One 
that has previously been granted a technical 
approval by SMST. 

1.3.1.3 New Combination. A combination of an 
approved base metal and an approved coating 
which have not been previously used together to 
produce an approved product. 

2 References 

Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 

2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 

ANSI/AWS/SAE D8.9-97 

ASTM E45 

ASTM A90 

ASTM E112 

ASTM A370 

ASTM E517 

ASTM A653 

ASTM E646 

ASTM A754 

QS9000 

ASTM A917 

SAE J911 

ASTM B571 

 



2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 

9984001 

GM6409M 

9984032 

GM9613P 

9984094 

GM9733P 

9984121 

GM9720P 

9984472 

GM9920P 

9984505 

GMW2 

GM6093M 

GMW8 

GM6178M 

GMW11 

GM6180M 

GMW3032 

GM6185M 

GMW3059 

GM6201M 

GMW3224 

GM6208M 

GMW3399 



3 Test Equipment 

Not applicable. 

4 Test Material 

Not applicable. 

5 Test Method 

5.1 Test Procedure 

5.1.1 Testing Requirements. Testing 
requirements of this procedure are based on 
base metal substrate type (low carbon or high 
strength steel), the coating type 


(electrogalvanized, hot dip galvanized, or 
aluminized), coating alloy (free zinc, zinc alloy, 
or aluminum alloy), surface quality (exposed (E), 
semi-exposed (Z) or unexposed (U) surface), 
and existing or new processing line. For initial 
approval, the steel producer must furnish 
information for each grade/ coating designation/ 
processing line combination desired for 
approval. GM requires that all suppliers adhere 
to the fundamental quality systems requirements 
of QS9000. Suppliers choosing other 
approaches must be able to show that their 
quality systems meet the intent of QS9000. 

5.1.2 All materials supplied to this specification 
must comply with the requirements listed in 
GMW3059, Restricted and Reportable 
Substances. Compliance with the requirements 
of GMW3059 must be documented with the 
GMW3059 form, located in the GMW 
Engineering Materials and Process Standards, 
and included in all approval package 
submissions. 

5.1.3 Qualification Requirements. 
Requirements for qualification of uncoated and 
coated steel per GM6093M, GM6178M, 
GM6208M, GM6218M, or GM6409M, GMW2M-
ST-S, GMW3032M-ST-S, or GMW3399M-ST-S 
exposed, semi-exposed and/or unexposed 
surface quality from a specific processing line, 
are defined in Table 1. Table 1 also defines 
testing requirements for an approved processing 
line supplying a new base metal or new higher 
strength grades, as well as new combinations of 
approved processing lines and approved base 
metals. Please note that elements of this 
approval process may also be used for other 
sheet steel related specifications. 

5.1.3.1 Rounding Convention. The rounding 
convention outlined in the appropriate materials 
specification shall be used to determine 
significant digits for the data reported. 

5.1.4 Approval Process 

5.1.4.1 Approval Initiation - GM. The technical 
approval process can be initiated by General 
Motors World Wide Purchasing (GMWWP) 
establishing a commercial need or the steel 
producer/processor establishing a technical 
need within GM for specific products. GMWWP 
shall contact the chairman of the SMST to 
initiate the approval process for a steel producer 
or processor. 

5.1.4.2 Approval Initiation - Supp