# GM_4350M_2005.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Material Specification 
Paints 
GM4350M 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Painted Part Performance Requirements 
 
 
1 Scope 
1.1 Material Description. This standard covers 
laboratory test requirements for a number of 
classes of paint finishes commonly used for 
automobile components. 
This standard does not cover appearance re-
quirements or processing parameters (exception: 
see paragraph 3.1.1) which are expected to be 
specified in material specifications (998XXXX) 
and is not intended to cover paint finishes as 
used in connection with vacuum deposited metal 
coatings and hot stamped coatings. 
For painted plastic parts only, the combinations of 
substrate, surface preparation and applied paints 
shall use that which are shown in GM Approved 
Paint on Parts Systems (APOPS) database. 
When APOPS testing is performed each test 
must be completed on a minimum of three sam-
ples, each obtained from separate parts. 
Parts which are source primed and subsequently 
top-coated at assembly plants shall be capable of 
accepting the specified topcoat paint system and 
meet all the test requirements of this standard. 
1.2 Typical Application. The following examples 
show where some code classes have been util-
ized in the past or are currently in use. Consult 
your materials engineer for assistance in specify-
ing codes for your applications. 
Typical applications for the classes of finishes are 
as follows: 
A336-xxx*. Normally applicable to chassis & exte-
rior vehicle parts having a corrodible substrate, 
such as unplated cold rolled steel, precoated 
steel, die cast zinc, aluminum or magnesium. 
Sometimes used for metal underhood parts. 
A168-xxx*. Frequently applicable to metal under-
hood parts. Sometimes applicable to metal chas-
sis components. 
A96. Previously utilized on exterior vehicle parts 
having paint on a bright substrate such as 
stainless steel, anodized aluminum and chro-
mium plated metal or plastic. Note that paint 
normally does not adhere well to bright surfaces, 
and passing the A96 requirement does not as-
sure satisfactory performance in the field. There-
fore, specifying paint on bright substrates is not 
recommended. 
A0. Normally applicable to exterior vehicle parts 
having plastic or other nonmetallic substrates. 
C96-xxx*. Normally applicable to visible metal 
parts in the trunk and vehicle interior which may 
be exposed to moisture. 
C24. Normally applicable to interior vehicle parts 
having metallic substrates which are not exposed 
to moisture. 
C0. Normally applicable to interior vehicle parts 
having plastic or other nonmetallic substrates. 
Note: xxx* refers to the appropriate Test Class 
Suffix from Table 4. 
1.3 Remarks. 
1.3.1 The tests specified herein are intended for 
both routine quality control (Section 3) and paint 
development (Section 3 and Appendix A). Addi-
tional test requirements shall be specified by Z 
suffixed to the class number, and the additional 
test requirements shall be outlined on the engi-
neering drawing and/or material specifications. 
Examples are shown in Table 1. 
Table 1: Suffix Z Examples 
Suffix Symbol to Class 
Test Requirements 
GM4350M Class A0/GD Z 
Gasoline Dip Resistance 
GM4350M Class A0/GP Z 
Gasoline Puddle Resistance 
GM4350M Class A0/M1 Z 
Mandrel Bend (M1) 
GM4350M Class A0/M2 Z 
Mandrel Bend (M2) 
GM4350M Class A168/OD Z 
Oil Immersion 
1Under the Z suffix the adjacent material with which the com-
patibility test is required must be specified on the engineering 
drawing. 
1.3.2 Table 2 depicts deleted classes and their 
current applicable equivalents. For new drawing 
callouts, see paragraph 1.2. 
 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
March 2005 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 8
 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GM 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`,,,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM4350M 
GM ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
Table 2: Deleted Classes 
Deleted Class 
Current Applicable 
Equivalent 
GM4350M Class B336 
GM4350M Class A336 
Except: (1) without N.S.S. 
related Corrosion Creep-
back requirements and 
(2) without Scab Corro-
sion & Corrosion Creep-
back 
requirements 
for 
zinc surfaces 
GM4350M Class B168 
GM4350M Class A168 
Except: (1) without N.S.S. 
related Corrosion Creep-
back 
requirements, 
(2) 
without Scab Corrosion & 
Corrosion 
Creepback 
requirements for zinc sur-
faces, and (3) Humidity 
exposure to be 24 h 
GM4350M Class B96 
GM4350M Class C96 
GM4350M Class B48 
GM4350M 
Class 
A96 
Except: (1) N.S.S. to be 
48 h 
GM4350M Class E24 
GM4350M 
Class 
A168/OD  
Except: (1) without N.S.S. 
related Corrosion Creep-
back 
requirements, 
(2) 
without Scab Corrosion & 
Corrosion 
Creepback 
requirements for zinc sur-
faces, and (3) Humidity 
exposure to be 24 h 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ASTM D3363 
SAE J2334 
ASTM D3763 
 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
9984303 
GM9503P 
GM4298P 
GM9504P 
GM4465P 
GM9505P 
GM8100G 
GM9506P 
GM8101G 
GM9507P 
GM9033P 
GM9508P 
GM9071P 
GM9509P 
GM9102P 
GM9511P 
GM9125P 
GM9515P 
GM9141P 
GM9516P 
GM9163P 
GM9540P 
GM9500P 
GMN10083 
GM9501P 
GMW3001 
GM9502P 
GMW3059 
3 Requirements 
3.1 Requirements on Delivery. For painted 
parts, prime and topcoat applications are limited 
per Table 3. 
Table 3: Allowed Primer and Topcoat 
Applications 
 
Number of 
OEM 
Applications
Repair 
Applica-
tions 
(max) 
Num-
ber of 
Bakes 
(max) 
Total 
Film 
Build (of 
given 
paint 
layer) 
(max) 
Primer
Note 1 
1 
2 
3 
100 µm 
Top-
coat
Note 2 
1 
2 
3 
225 µm 
Note 1: Wet-on-wet applications are considered as only one 
application (still limited by total film build of given layer re-
quirement). 
Note 2: Total film for topcoat only, including two-tone applica-
tions. Parts that are unsatisfactory after a spot repair (for 
either primer or topcoat) must be scrapped. 
Topcoats are to be repaired with the OEM or two-
tone color only (i.e., white over white, red over 
red, etc.). 
Unless otherwise specified, painted parts shall be 
subjected to the testing after a minimum aging 
period of 72 h following the baking or drying cy-
cle. A shorter aging period may be used, pro-
vided it is recognized that this represents a more 
severe condition of test and that results obtained 
at different aging times under 72 h are not a good 
basis for comparing the relative performance 
characteristics of paint finishes. 
3.1.1 Chemical Requirements. Effective model 
year 2006, all sealed phosphated parts, both new 
and carryover, must use a sealer approved to 
9984303. 
3.1.2 Physical Requirements. Parts furnished to 
this standard shall meet the test requirements 
shown in Table 5 for the class of finish specified.  
These tests are to be run on production parts for 
PPAP submissions and routine quality control.  
Frequency of testing shall be based on a statisti-
cal sampling plan determined by the supplier or 
at minimum as specified in this specification 
These tests shall also be performed during the 
initial qualification process for paint materials. 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 8 
March 2005
 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GM 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`,,,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GM4350M 
 
3.1.2.1 
Cyclic 
Corrosion, 
GM9540P. 
Accelerated corrosion testing is required to be 
performed on normally processed parts, or 
representative 
sections 
of 
parts, 
for 
the 
Production Part Approval Process (PPAP). Also, 
applicators are required to perform this test 
(GM9540P) a minimum of 2 times per year on 
processed parts representing each substrate type 
that is being processed for GM (i.e., Bare steel, 
hot 
dipped 
galvanized, 
electrogalvanized, 
aluminum, zinc die cast, galvanneal, etc.). After 
exposure the parts must have a corrosion rating 
of 8 or better per the GM Engineering Corrosion 
Standards Rating Scale (See Table 4 below for 
appropriate rating scale specification). Part 
performance records shall be kept for reference 
and be available for review. The most recently 
tested parts should be retained for potential 
review. 
Records 
shall 
indicate 
the 
part 
performance and the coupon mass loss at regular 
intervals (i.e., 8 cycles, 16 cycles, etc.). SAE 
J2334 test procedure may be substituted for 
GM9540P, provided GM9540P coupon mass loss 
requirements are met. 
Note: At a PPAP submission of a part, the latest 
test results (not older than 6 months) of 
GM9540P test can be submitted for approval, if 
run on an equivalent part with GM agreement. 
 
Table 4: Performance Criteria Note 1 
Test Class Suffix 
Location 
EXT 
Exterior 
U/H 
Underhood 
U/B 
Underbody 
INT-LO 
Interior Low 
INT-HI 
Interior High 
Gravelometer & Cy-
clic Corrosion 
(GM9508P & 
GM9540P or SAE 
J2334) 
N/A 
N/A 
Gravelometer 
& 
Duration A 
Note 2 
N/A 
N/A 
Cyclic Corrosion & 
Corrosion Creepback 
(GM9540P or SAE 
J2334 & GM9102P) 
Duration C 
 
Note 2, Note 3 
Duration B 
 
Note 2, Note 3 
N/A 
Option XI, 
12 cycles 
Note 2, Note 3 
Option XI, 
4 cycles 
Note 2, Note 3 
Acceptance Criteria 
Corrosion 
rating of 8 or 
better per 
GM8100G 
Corrosion 
rating of 8 or 
better per 
GM8101G 
Corrosion 
rating of 8 or 
better per 
GM8101G 
Corrosion 
rating of 8 or 
better per 
GM8101G 
Corrosion 
rating of 8 or 
better per 
GM8101G 
Note 1: The Performance Criteria will be indicated by the Test Class Suffix (i.e., GM4350M A336 – U/B). When the Test Class Suffix is 
not indicated (i.e., GM4350M A336), the Performance Criteria will be based on the part’s location on the vehicle per the following: 
1. 
Exterior/Secondary Surface Parts – Duration C 
2. 
Underhood Parts – Duration B  
3. 
Underbody Parts – Duration A with Gravelometer  
4. 
Interior (Floor – low mount location) – Option XI, 12 cycles  
5. 
Interior (Underdash – mid to high mount) – Option XI, 4 cycles 
Note 2: If SAE J2334 is run, use the GM9540P coupon mass loss requirements 
Note 3: Maximum allowable creepback is 6 mm on bare steel and cast iron substrates and 3 mm creepback on all other substrates 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
March 2005 
Page 3 of 8
 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GM 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`,,,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM4350M 
GM ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
4 Manufacturing Process 
Not applicable. 
5 Rules and Regulations 
5.1 All materials supplied to this specification 
must comply with the requirements of GMW3001, 
Rules and Regulations for Material Specifica-
tions. 
5.2 All materials supplied to this specification 
must comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. 
6 Approved Sources 
Not applicable. 
7 Coding System 
This material specification shall be referenced in 
other documents, drawings, VTS, CTS, etc. as 
follows: 
The following examples are for paint performance 
requirements only and do not include any addi-
tional material specifications that may be called 
out on the drawing. 
Examples: 
GM4350M CLASS A336-EXT 
GM4350M CLASS A336-U/B 
GM4350M CLASS A168-U/H 
GM4350M CLASS A168-U/B 
GM4350M CLASS C96-INT-LO 
GM4350M CLASS C96-INT-HI 
GM4350M CLASS C24 
GM4350M CLASS A0 
GM4350M CLASS C0 
(Refer to paragraph 1.2 Typical Application for 
the appropriate test class) 
8 Release and Revisions 
8.1 Release. This specification was first ap-
proved and published in December 1960 
8.2 Revisions 
Rev 
Approval 
Date 
Description (Organization) 
L 
DEC 2004 Added Table 4. Revised Sec 
1.2, 3.1.2, 3.1.2.1, 6, 7, 8.2 
and revised and renumbered 
Table 4 to Table 5 and Ap-
pendix A. (Applied Parts 
Specialist Team) 
M 
MAR 2005 Removed compatibility and 
added oven age and impact 
to Table 5 (Applied Parts 
Specialist Team) 
 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 4 of 8 
March 2005
 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GM 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`,,,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GM4350M 
 
Table 5: Test Class Requirements 
Test Class 
A336 
A168 
A96 
A0 
C96 
C24 
C0 
Tape Adhesion (GM9071P) 
Note 1 
Note 1 
Note 1 
Note 1 
Note 1 
Note 1 
Note 1 
Humidity & Tape Adhesion (GM4465P 
& GM9071P) 
96 
h 
Note 2, 
Note 3 
96 
h 
Note 2, 
Note 3 
96 
h 
Note 2, 
Note 3 
96 
h 
Note 2, 
Note 3 
24 
h 
Note 2, 
Note 3 
24 
h 
Note 2, 
Note 3 
24 
h 
Note 2, 
Note 3 
Neutral Salt Spray & Corrosion Creep-
back (GM4298P & GM9102P) (non-
zinc substrates only) 
336 
h 
Note 2, 
Note 4, 
Note 5 
168 h 
Note 2, 
Note 4, 
Note 5 
96 
h 
Note 2, 
Note 4, 
Note 5 
 
 
 
 
Scab 
Corrosion 
Creepback 
(GM9511P) (zinc substrates only) 
2 weeks 
Note 2, 
Note 4, 
Note 5 
1 week 
Note 2, 
Note 4, 
Note 5 
4 days 
Note 2, 
Note 4, 
Note 5 
 
 
 
 
Neutral Salt Spray (GM4298P) 
 
 
 
 
96 
h 
Note 2, 
Note 5 
24 
h 
Note 2, 
Note 5 
 
Cyclic Corrosion (GM9540P) 
See  
Table 4 
Note 4, 
Note 12 
See  
Table 
4 
Note 4, 
Note 12 
See  
Table 
4 
Note 4, 
Note 12 
 
See  
Table 4 
Note 4, 
Note 12 
 
 
Chip Resistance (GM9508P) 
Note 6 
Note 6 
Note 6 
Note 7, 
Note 8 
 
 
 
Dime Scrape, Brittleness – Rigid Sub-
strate (GM9506P) 
 
 
 
Note 9 
 
 
Note 9 
Thumbnail Hardness (GM9507P) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 10
Cure (GM9509P) 
Note 11 
Note 11 
Note 11 
Note 11 
Note 11 
Note 11
Note 11
Knife Crosshatch Adhesion – Flexible 
Substrate (GM9502P) 
 
 
 
Note 12 
 
 
 
Mandrel Bend – Flexible Substrate 
(where specified with Z suffixes as M1 
Z or M2 Z) (GM9503P) 
 
 
 
Note 13 
 
 
 
Gasoline Resistance – Dip (where 
specified with Z suffix as GD Z) 
(GM9501P) 
Note 14, 
Note 15 
Note 14, 
Note 15 
Note 14, 
Note 15 
Note 14, 
Note 15 
 
 
 
Gasoline Resistance – Puddle (where 
specified with Z suffix as GP Z) 
(GM9500P) 
Note 14, 
Note 15 
Note 14, 
Note 15 
Note 14, 
Note 15 
Note 14, 
Note 15 
 
 
 
Oil Resistance Dip (where specified 
with Z suffix as OD Z) (Appendix B) 
7 
h 
Note 10 
7 
h 
Note 10 
7 
h 
Note 10 
7 
h 
Note 10 
 
 
 
Oven Aging (GMN10083) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 16
Multi-Axial Instrumented Impact Test-
ing (ASTM D3763 and GMN10083) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 17
 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
March 2005 
Page 5 of 8
 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GM 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`,,,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM4350M 
GM ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
Note 1 Minimum of 99% paint retention in as received condition. 
Note 2 No evidence of blistering or other appearance changes at the end of the h indicated. 
Note 3 Minimum of 99% paint retention. 
Note 4 Maximum allowable creepback is 3 mm (see GM9102P). 
Note 5 Less than 10% of surface shall be corroded (exclusive of scribes and/or within 3 mm of sharp edges). 
Note 6 Minimum rating of 6 (metallic substrates). 
Note 7 Minimum rating of 7 (rigid plastics, flexural modulus >800 MPa). 
Note 8 Minimum rating of 8 (flexible plastics, flexural modulus <800 MPa). 
Note 9 No evidence of brittleness. Paint removal shall be confined to an area less than the width of the furrow made by the dime. 
Note 10 No marring or paint removal of the surface (i.e., no paint removal or change in appearance). 
Note 11 Rating of 0 or 1. 
Note 12 Minimum rating of 8. 
Note 13 Minimum of 8 (minimal cracking). 
Note 14 No color change or paint removal to previous surface or lifting or peeling of paint film. 
Note 15 No visible defect in paint film. 
Note 16 No perceptible color or gloss change, loss of adhesion, distortion or exudation 
Note 17 Impact resistance of painted test panels with one surface painted and the reverse surface unpainted must be at least 80% of 
the impact resistance of identical but unpainted test panels. 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 6 of 8 
March 2005
 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GM 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`,,,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GM4350M 
 
Appendix A 
A1. Paint Development Tests. Paint develop-
ment tests are, in most cases, long term tests 
which are to be used by engineering for qualifica-
tion of paint materials. For exterior, Paint Engi-
neering should be contacted to determine the 
development tests required for a specific material 
and application. For windshield wipers, mast an-
tennas, chassis, underhood, and interior parts, 
Materials Engineering should be contacted to 
determine the development tests required for a 
specific material and applications. In most cases, 
these tests are not used for routine quality con-
trol. 
Note: It is important to note that there are addi-
tional development type tests that can be used to 
qualify paint materials. The tests listed below il-
lustrate some of the more common paint devel-
opment tests that are used. Additional tests may 
be required depending upon the environment that 
a paint material will be exposed to in service. 
A1.1 Outdoor Weathering test requirements 
(GM9163P) are defined in the individual specifi-
cations. 
A1.2 Xenon Arc Weatherometer Test (GM9125P) 
requirements are defined in the individual specifi-
cations. 
A1.3 Scab Corrosion Test shall be conducted 
according to GM9511P. 
A1.4 Cold Crack/Corrosion Cycle Tests shall be 
conducted according to GM9505P Cycle J. 
A1.5 Color Crock Test shall be conducted ac-
cording to GM9033P. 
A1.6 Oven Aging Test shall be conducted ac-
cording to GM9504P. 
A1.7 Abrasion Resistance Test of organic coat-
ings shall be conducted according to GM9515P. 
A1.8 Wear Resistance Test (Canvas Belt Wear 
Test) shall be conducted according to GM9516P. 
A1.9 Pencil Hardness Test shall be conducted 
according to ASTM D3363. 
A1.10 Cyclic Corrosion Test shall be conducted 
according to GM9540P (SAE J2334 test proce-
dure may be substituted for GM9540P, provided 
GM9540P coupon mass loss requirements are 
met). Length of test is defined in the individual 
specifications, or will be determined by Materials 
Engineering or Paint Engineering. 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
March 2005 
Page 7 of 8
 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GM 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`,,,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM4350M 
GM ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
Appendix B 
B1. Oil Immersion Test Procedure. Oil Immer-
sion Test shall be conducted as follows: Immerse 
the painted specimen in a bath of current produc-
tion automotive engine oil maintained @ 70 to 
75°C for the specified number of hours. Remove 
specimen from the bath. Attempt to press a 
sturdy thumbnail into painted surface. While hold-
ing the nail in a vertical position and maintaining 
heavy pressure thereon, drag the nail across the 
surface so as to cause a maximum marring 
and/or loosening effect. Visually examine the 
tested area and record the results as marred or 
not marred. (A finish is considered marred if any 
paint has been removed and/or the appearance 
of the surface has been significantly changed.) 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 8 of 8 
March 2005
 
Copyright General Motors North America 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GM 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`,,,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
