# GMW 14674_2007.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Material Specification 
Finish 
GMW14674 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Organic Coat Finish for Cast Iron Parts 
 
 
© Copyright 2007 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
May 2007 
Originating Department: GME Specification Center 
Page 1 of 4
 
1 Introduction 
Note: Nothing in the specification supersedes 
applicable laws and regulations. 
Note: In the event of conflict between the English 
and domestic language, the English language shall 
take precedence. 
1.1 Scope. Standard will cover performance 
requirements for organic electrostatic applied 
powder epoxy paint and liquid applied paint 
finishes to underbody/hood parts which are not 
exposed to UV. The resultant paint film is intended 
to provide cosmetic corrosion resistance to exterior 
surfaces of cast iron components, e.g., cylinder 
blocks and heads. 
Note: Some sections reference both, GMW test 
methods and regional test methods and when 
GMW specifications are written and become 
available they shall supersede the regional test 
methods. 
1.2 Mission/Theme. This specification details the 
performance requirements for organic coat finishes 
on the surfaces of cast iron parts, e.g., cylinder 
blocks. 
1.3 Classification. 
1.3.1 Type A: Electrostatic applied epoxy. Only 
epoxy materials are approved for this type coating. 
Other paint technologies may be suitable and shall 
require validation to assure conformance to 
durability, 
machinability 
and 
topcoating 
specifications. 
1.3.2 Type B: Liquid applied paint film. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ISO 105-F09 
 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
9985809 
GMW14333 
B 040 1065 
GMW14334 
EMS 9309599 
GMW14700 
GME8673 
GMW14729 
GMW3059 
GMW14829 
GMW3286 
GMW15282 
2.3 Additional References. 
Part number 9274079 
3 Test Preparation and Evaluation 
3.1 Resources. 
3.1.1 Calibration. The test facilities and equipment 
shall be in good working order and shall have a 
valid calibration label. 
3.1.2 Alternatives. Alternative test facilities and 
equipment may also be used. However, all 
measuring 
variables 
as 
specified 
in 
this 
specification shall be determined correctly with 
respect to its physical definition. 
3.1.3 Facilities. Facilities as required by the 
appropriate test method. 
3.1.4 
Equipment. 
Equipment 
suitable 
for 
measuring coating thickness based on eddy 
current 
or 
ferromagnetic 
principles 
with 
an 
accuracy of ± 2 µm. 
3.1.5 Test Vehicle/Test Piece. 
3.1.5.1 Unless otherwise indicated the shape, size 
and number of test pieces are as specified in the 
appropriate test method. 
3.1.5.2 For the determination of the properties to 
Section 4, either the complete component or 
suitable sections therefore shall be used for test 
pieces. Test pieces shall be excised from cast iron 
production intent components. 
3.1.6 Test Time. Not applicable. 
3.1.7 Test Required Information. Not applicable. 
3.1.8 Personnel/Skills. Not applicable. 
3.2 Preparation. Not applicable. 
3.3 Conditions. 
3.3.1 Environmental Conditions. Not applicable. 
3.3.2 Test Conditions. Not applicable. 
3.4 Instructions. Not applicable. 
3.5 Data. Not applicable. 
3.6 Safety. This standard may involve hazardous 
materials, 
operations, 
and 
equipment. 
This 
standard does not propose to address all the 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW14674 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2007 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 4 
May 2007
 
safety problems associated with its use. It is the 
responsibility of the user of the standard to 
establish appropriate safety and health practices 
and determine the applicability of regulatory 
limitations prior to use. 
3.7 Documentation. 
3.7.1 Test Results. With reference to this 
specification the results shall be represented in a 
test report. 
3.7.2 
Deviations 
from 
Test 
Procedure. 
Deviations from the requirements of the test 
procedures shall have been agreed upon. Such 
requirements shall be specified on component 
drawings, test certificates, reports, etc. 
4 Requirements and Procedure 
4.1 General. 
4.1.1 Coatings shall be free of Chrome VI per 
GMW3059. 
4.1.2 Chrome VI used as adhesion promoter is 
impermissible per GMW3059. 
4.1.3 Post-treatments. 
Post-treatments, 
if 
performed, shall be Chrome VI free per GMW3059. 
4.2 Coating Thickness. Coating thickness is 
specified for both electrostatic applied Epoxy 
Powder and liquid coatings: 
4.2.1 Type A: Epoxy Powder Coating (microns). 
100 +50/-25 μm. 
4.2.2 Type B: Liquid Applied Coating (microns) 
50 μm minimum. 
Note: 
GM 
and 
supplier 
shall 
agree 
upon 
designated component regions that will be used to 
measure coating thickness. Test regions shall be in 
accordance with GME8673. 
Note: Overspray is typically allowed and shall be 
designated on component drawings. 
4.3 Cross Hatch Test. Cross hatch tape adhesion 
test to GMW14829. Rating 0 & 1 as delivered and 
after 96 h humidity testing per GMW14729 Option 
A. 
Note: This test requirement shall apply to all 
component locations that can physically be tested 
and that have the specified film build thickness. 
4.4 Salt Spray Fog Testing. Salt spray fog testing 
to GMW3286, 168 h unless otherwise specified. 
4.4.1 Type A. 168 h 
4.4.2 Type B. 96 h 
4.4.2.1 For Type B. This test shall be performed 
on parts in the as received condition and after 
exposure for 120 h in a drying oven at +100 ± 3°C. 
4.4.3 Requirement. Paint film shall show no 
evidence of 
blistering, 
separation, 
softening, 
discoloration or other appearance changes at the 
end of exposure hours indicated, maximum 
allowable creep back is 3 mm for Type A and 
2 mm for Type B coatings (see GMW15282). Less 
then 10% of surface shall be corroded (exclusive of 
scribe area and/or within 2 mm, of sharp edges). 
Reference GMW15282: The evaluation of the 
creep back can be realized by blowing with 
compressed air or by using adhesive tape as per 
GMW14829. 
4.5 
Chip Resistance. 
Chip 
resistance 
to 
GMW14700. Method A (or B) and C. Test 
temperatures include room temperature and -18oC. 
4.5.1 Requirement. Finish shall exhibit a minimum 
rating of 7. 
4.6 Humidity Resistance. Humidity resistance per 
(GMW14729 Option A) 96 h at 40oC and 100% 
humidity. 
4.6.1 Requirement. Paint film shall show no 
blistering, separation (no loss of adhesion), 
softening, discoloration or other appearance 
changes. 
4.7 Water Resistance. The test piece shall be 
immersed in water for 24 ± 1 h at 63 ± 2°C. 
4.7.1 Requirement. Paint film shall show no 
blistering, separation (no loss of adhesion), 
softening, discoloration or other appearance 
changes. 
4.8 Motor Oil Resistance. Motor Oil (factory fill 
equivalent). The test piece shall be immersed in 
motor oil and then exposed for 24 ± 1 h in a drying 
oven at 100 ± 3oC. 
4.8.1 Requirement. Paint film shall show no 
blistering, separation (no loss of adhesion), 
softening, discoloration or other appearance 
changes. 
4.9 Fuel Resistance. Test specimens shall be 
immersed in approved fuels and tested per 
GMW14333. Test fuels shall include gasoline, E85 
and diesel. 
4.9.1 Requirement. Paint film shall show no 
blistering, separation (no loss of adhesion), 
softening, discoloration or other appearance 
changes. 
4.10 Solvent Resistance. Ten (10) double rubs 
with soft cheesecloth (cotton rubbing cloth to 
ISO 105-F09) saturated with 60% isooctane/40% 
toluene. 
4.10.1 Requirement. Paint film shall show no 
blistering, separation (no loss of adhesion), 
softening, discoloration or other appearance 
changes. 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14674
 
© Copyright 2007 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
May 2007 
Page 3 of 4
 
4.11 Engine Coolant Resistance. Test specimens 
shall be immersed in a 50% volume fraction 
solution of approved anti-freeze and tested per 
GMW14334. 
• 
ARTECO, Havoline XLC per 9274079 (B 040 
1065) or equivalent. 
• 
Chevron, Extended Life Coolant per 9985809 
or equivalent. 
• 
Tirreno, True Chemical, Long Life Engine 
Coolant per EMS 9309599 or equivalent. 
4.11.1 Requirement. Paint film shall show no 
blistering, separation (no loss of adhesion), 
softening, 
discoloration or 
other appearance 
changes. 
4.12 Sensor Compatibility. Paint that will be 
applied to cast iron components must not degrade 
the response time or functioning of the oxygen 
sensors or any other engine sensor. Paint 
composition shall be free of compounds harmful to 
such sensors. The GM sensor Technical Specialist 
shall be contacted for review of any new paint 
formulation with sensor suppliers. 
4.13 Topcoat Compatibility Type A only. Paint 
shall not contain film formers, resins or additives 
detrimental to topcoat adhesion. Painted test 
panels shall be topcoated with finishes commonly 
used by engine Marinizers. Topcoated panels 
representative of the Marinizer coating process 
shall satisfactorily pass GMW14829, cross-cut tape 
adhesion test (topcoat to powder) after exposure to 
96 h of condensing humidity per GMW14729 
Option A. 
4.13.1 
Requirement. 
Satisfactory 
panel 
performance and topcoat compatibility subject to 
GM Powertrain evaluation and approval. 
4.14 Process and Machining Compatibility. 
Applied coatings shall be sufficiently cured prior to 
machining to avoid any damage during subsequent 
operations and cleaning processes. A production 
run of parts shall be monitored to ensure that paint 
machinability does not adversely affect tool life, 
washer performance, or appearance, etc., and that 
common plant cutting fluids, cleaners, solvents, 
etc., which contact components do not adversely 
affect coating appearance or performance. 
4.15 Appearance of Coating. The cured paint film 
shall be free from inclusions and runs. 
4.16 
Additional 
Requirements. 
For 
further 
information refer to the part drawing. 
5 Provisions for Shipping 
Not applicable. 
6 Approved Sources 
6.1 Sourcing. Samples of components or material 
released to this specification shall be tested for 
conformity 
with 
the 
requirements 
of 
this 
specification and approved by the responsible GM 
Department prior to the start of delivery of 
production level components or materials. For 
Type A coatings the casting supplier may select a 
paint supplier from the list of GM approved 
materials that are in MATSPC. Switching from one 
approved supplier to another requires prior notice 
and re-PPAP. 
Any change to the component or material, e.g., 
design, function, properties, manufacturing process 
and/or location of manufacture requires a new 
release of the product. It is the sole responsibility 
of the supplier to provide the customer, unsolicited, 
with documentation of any change or modification 
to the product/process, and to apply for a new 
release. 
If not otherwise agreed upon the entire verification 
test shall be repeated and documented by the 
supplier prior to start of delivery of the modified or 
changed product. In some cases a shorter test can 
be agreed to between the responsible GM 
Department and the supplier. 
This 
specification 
requires 
engineering 
qualifications of an approved source for Type A 
coatings. Only sources listed in the GM Materials 
File (i.e., MATSPC) under this specification 
number have been qualified by engineering. 
For other GM locations the proposed supplier must 
contact GM responsible engineering group to 
obtain approval for their recommended coating in 
that individual country. 
7 Notes 
7.1 Glossary. Not applicable. 
7.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. 
PPAP  
Production Part Approval Process 
uv  
 
Ultraviolet 
8 Additional Paragraphs 
8.1 All parts or systems supplied to this 
specification must comply with the requirements of 
GMW3059, 
Restricted 
and 
Reportable 
Substances for Parts. 
9 Coding System 
This specification shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, VTS, CTS, etc. as follows: 
GMW14674, Type A or B as per 1.3 clause 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW14674 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2007 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 4 of 4 
May 2007
 
10 Release and Revisions 
10.1 Release. This standard originated in October 
2005, replacing GME 00257. It was first approved 
by Global Finishes and Coatings Team in May 
2006. It was first published in May 2007. 
 
 
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
