# GMW 14664_2009.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Material Specification 
Paints 
GMW14664 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Powder Coat Finish 
 
 
В© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
June 2009 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 8 
 
1 Scope 
1.1 Material Description. Powder coatings for the 
purpose of this specification shall be defined as 
organic resin material in a finely powdered state, 
for application to suitably prepared ferrous or 
nonferrous metallic surfaces, followed by heat cure 
(to develop the desired characteristics in the 
finished film). Generally, a specific material 
requirement and color will be shown on the 
engineering 
drawing, 
otherwise 
any 
powder 
coating may be used, provided that the test 
requirements of the specifications are met. 
1.1.1 These coatings are intended to ensure 
adequate protection against corrosion on surfaces 
of both external and internal parts of passenger 
and commercial vehicles. 
1.1.2 In order to meet the requirements of this 
specification, it is necessary for components to 
undergo a suitable cleaning process/removal 
operation (including scale or other oxide layers). 
Cleaning is to be followed by an appropriate pre-
treatment before powder coat application. 
1.1.3 The pretreatment (e.g., low zinc, 3-cations-
phophating) shall ensure good adhesion. Iron 
phosphate is prohibited by GME for Type C. It is 
not preferred but is permitted by GMNA. Primer 
may be used if specified on the engineering 
drawing. 
1.1.4 
These 
coatings 
may 
be 
applied 
by 
electrostatic spray or fluidized bed techniques. 
1.2 Symbols. Not applicable. 
1.3 Typical Applications. Parts with a coating 
according to this specification can be classified into 
one of the following categories. 
Type A: Body Outer Decorative parts such as roof 
rails, 
guide 
rails, 
and 
decorative 
moldings. 
Requirements for these components are specified 
by GMW3005 Topcoat вҖ“ Generic Qualification 
(Table 2, Topcoat Type: Type B Rigid Parts 
(Outsourced Non-Assembly Plant Materials)). Type 
A parts must also meet the requirements for 
corrosion resistance as specified by GMW14669, 
Organic Coating/Finish Performance for Exterior 
and Interior Metallic Materials. 
Type 
B: 
Body 
Inner, 
only 
for 
passenger 
compartments, such as partition grille, brackets. 
пӮ· 
Area I  
Direct sunlight, all specific colors. 
пӮ· 
Area II  
Indirect 
sunlight, 
non 
color-
matched. 
Type C: Engine Compartment and Underbody 
Components. 
пӮ· 
All locations. 
пӮ· 
Part type and location must be specified on the 
engineering drawing. 
пӮ· 
This specification is not applicable for the body 
itself and body elements (such as doors, hood, 
and tailgate). 
пӮ· 
Certain types of powder coatings e.g., Epoxy, 
when exposed to Ultraviolet (UV) radiation, 
show a tendency to вҖңchalkвҖқ. However, this 
feature 
does 
not 
affect 
the 
service 
performance of the material. These powder 
coat finishes are unsuitable for Type B in direct 
sunlight exposure areas. 
1.4 Remarks. Not applicable. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ASTM D870 
SAE J1545 
ISO 105-A02 
SAE J1767 
ISO 15184 
 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
B 040 0900 
GMW14334 
EMS 09.309.574 
GMW14669 
GM6094M 
GMW14698 
GMN3943 
GMW14700 
GMW3001 
GMW14701 
GMW3005 
GMW14729 
GMW3059 
GMW14829 
GMW3286 
GMW14872 
GMW3417 
GMW15282 
GMW14162 
GMW15357 
GMW14333 
HN0283 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14664 
 
В© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
June 2009 
Page 2 of 8 
 
3 Requirements 
3.1 Requirements on Test Specimens. 
3.1.1 Coatings shall be free of Chrome VI. 
3.1.2 Chrome VI used as adhesion promoter is not 
permissible. 
3.1.3 Post treatments, if performed, shall be 
Chrome VI free. 
3.2 Test Samples. Use test pieces and number of 
test pieces as specified in the appropriate test 
methods. In instances of powder coating being 
applied to castings of ferrous or non-ferrous 
metals, coated cast test panels or parts shall be 
used. Test pieces shall be tested in the as received 
condition 
(i.e., 
without 
any 
pre-conditioning, 
irrespective 
of 
conditioning 
requirements 
of 
specified test methods). Wait a minimum of 72 h 
after 
bake 
before 
commencing 
test. These 
conditions apply to all components to be tested per 
this specification. 
3.3 Appearance. The powder coating finish on the 
component shall be smooth and free from any 
surface blemishes prejudicial to serviceability or 
appearance. 
3.4 Coating Thickness. The coating thickness 
shall be determined by using an apparatus based 
on eddy current or ferromagnetic principles to 
within Вұ 2 Вөm. 
Note: Required for all types: 50 to 100 Вөm or as 
specified on the engineering drawing. 
3.5 Hardness. The hardness of the coating can be 
examined by using test method described in 3.5.1 
or 3.5.2. 
3.5.1 Erichsen Hardness Test (Rod Type 318). 
Perform 
scratch 
resistance 
according 
to 
GMW14698 in the as received condition. 
3.5.2 Pencil Hardness. The paint hardness shall 
be between 1H and 3H per ISO 15184. 
3.6 Cross-Hatch Test. Perform Tape Adhesion 
Test 
according 
to 
GMW14829 
in 
delivery 
conditions and after high humidity exposure 
according to GMW14729 (for exposure time see 
3.7). Painted parts Types B and C are allowed to 
have a rating of 0 or 1. 
3.7 High Humidity Environment. Painted parts 
must be exposed to a high humidity environment 
per GMW14729 with no evidence of blistering, 
corrosion, or any other change in appearance. The 
exposure times are: 
пӮ· 
96 h for Type B. 
пӮ· 
144 h for Type C. 
3.8 Corrosion Test. The determination of the 
resistance of the organic coating to corrosion has 
to be done by a salt spray fog test or by a cyclic 
corrosion test. 
3.8.1 Salt Spray Fog Testing. (Required for GME, 
GM Holden and GM-LAAM/Mercosur). 144 h 
(Type B) and 336 h (other types) shall be done 
according to GMW3286. No corrosion (except 
along scribe lines), blistering, or other appearance 
changes are allowed. Total scribe creepback 
determined per GMW15282 shall be 6 mm 
maximum for zinc coated steel and 3 mm 
maximum for all other substrates. (The evaluation 
of scribe creepback can be determined by scrape 
and blow off with compressed air per GMW15282 
or by using tape adhesion per GMW14829 
paragraphs 5.3.5 through 5.3.7). 
Note: Slight rust at edges is permitted for Type C, 
but shall not exceed 20% of the length of exposed 
edges. 
3.8.2 Cyclic Corrosion Test. (Required for 
GMDAT, GMNA and PATAC). A cyclic corrosion 
test, per GMW14872 is required for validation on 
normally processed parts, or on representative 
sections of parts. Refer to the Appendix A Table 
A2 for specific details associated with required test 
exposures for specified test class suffix, vehicle 
area, and mounting location. 
пӮ· 
For Type B: Corrosion rating of 8 or better per 
GMW15357. 
пӮ· 
For Type C: Corrosion rating of 8 or better per 
GMW15357. 
3.9 Resistance to Stone Impact. Stone impact 
resistance 
shall 
be 
tested 
according 
to 
GMW14700. 
пӮ· 
For Type C: Method C: > rating 7 
3.10 Resistance to Fuel and Oil. 
3.10.1 Fuel Resistance. Fuel resistance shall be 
tested according to GMW14333 for Type C. A 
rating of 2 is required. 
3.10.2 Oil Resistance. Oil resistance must be 
performed for Type C parts only for first sample 
approval of paint and painted components which 
may have contact with oil. 
3.10.2.1 Immerse test piece in engine oil, e.g., 
B 040 0900 (for GME), EMS 09.309.574 (for 
GM LAAM) or in GM6094M and expose for 
+24 Вұ 1 h in a drying oven at 100 Вұ 3В°C. 
3.10.2.2 Evaluate after cooling to +23 Вұ 5В°C. 
Note: Deviations from the specified test standards 
shall be agreed upon with the responsible 
Materials Engineer. 
3.11 Resistance to Color Change. (This test is 
required for GME only.) Parts may exhibit no color 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14664 
 
В© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
June 2009 
Page 3 of 8 
 
change when tested with Fuel Oil Soot per 
GMW14701. 
3.12 Resistance to Cleaning Agents. Type B 
must attain rating 2 per GMW14334: No swelling, 
no discoloration, no dissolution is allowed. 
3.13 Weather Resistance. Paragraphs 3.13.1 and 
3.13.2 apply to topcoat systems only, for initial 
(paint) sample approval only. 
Note: These requirements were not intended for 
use in routine quality testing. 
Deviation from the stated requirements is subject 
to arbitration between the supplier and the 
appropriate GM Materials Engineer. 
3.13.1 Natural Weathering. Natural weathering is 
required for the validation process of a powder 
paint material itself. These requirements are for 
Type B Parts, for the regions indicated below. 
(Please refer to Appendix B for specific test 
methodologies.) 
The following are the regional requirements: 
пӮ· 
AP/GM Holden: No appreciable color change 
or loss of adhesion. Loss of gloss вүӨ 20%. 
пӮ· 
LAAM/Mercosur: Gloss change after test 
вүӨ 20%. Color change after test: CIELAB color 
scale, пҒ„E* вүӨ 3.0 (D65 illuminant, 10В°observer, 
45В° geometry) or no visually perceived color 
change. 
3.13.2 
Accelerated 
Weathering. 
These 
requirements are for Type B parts only. If a 
supplier shall be able to prove a positive result of 
2 years natural weathering test, the accelerated 
weathering 
test 
is 
not 
required. 
Refer 
to 
Appendix B for region specific test methodologies. 
The following are the evaluation requirements: 
No cracking, blistering, loss of adhesion or other 
surface destruction. Color change after test: 
CIELAB color scale, пҒ„E* пӮЈ 3.0 (D65 illuminant, 
10 degree observer, 45 degree geometry), with 
visual approval is preferred. 
пӮ· 
Maximum unpolished gloss loss shall be 
вүӨ 40%. 
пӮ· 
Maximum gloss loss on polished shall be 
вүӨ 20%. 
For Type B parts that cannot be measured for 
gloss, after exposure parts must fulfill value 3 or 
more per the ISO 105-A02 grey scale. No cracking, 
blistering or other surface destruction is allowed. 
3.14 Water Soak Test per ASTM D870 (Required 
for GM Holden Only). Test with deionized water at 
38 Вұ 1В°C. Check GMW14829 X-cut adhesion. 
пӮ· 
Type B: 2 h exposure (+15/-0) minutes. 
Note: No defects or metal corrosion are allowed. 
Permissible loss of adhesion is 1% max after 13 to 
15 minutes recovery. No chipping or flaking 
(brittleness) during X-cut is allowed. 
пӮ· 
Type C: 2 h exposure +15/-0 minutes. 
Note: No defects or metal corrosion are allowed. 
Permissible loss of adhesion is 5% max after 
1 minute recovery. 
3.15 Mar Test per GMN3943 (Required for GM 
Holden Only). Perform using a 13 N weight and 
1 mm stylus. 
пӮ· 
Type B: A subjective Rating 1 to 5 is required. 
Slight marring is acceptable. Check the test 
part against an approved control. 
пӮ· 
Type C: Mar test is not required. 
3.16 Chemical Spot Test per GMW14701 
(Required for GM Holden Only). Use 10%, 1.0% 
and 0.1% solutions by weight of Analytical 
Reagents - Acetic, Hydrochloric, Sulfuric acids and 
Sodium Hydroxide per GMW14701. 
пӮ· 
Type B: Not required. 
пӮ· 
Type C: Required where specified (e.g., 
battery tray). 8 minimum rating with 0.1%, 
1.0%, and 10% solutions. 
3.17 Temperature Resistance Test (No Method 
Available. Required for GM Holden Only). Bake 
the test panel at 100 Вұ 2В°C for 24 Вұ 1 h, unless 
specified otherwise. 
пӮ· 
Type B: Test is not required. 
пӮ· 
Type C: No detrimental effects indicating film 
breakdown are allowed. 
3.18 Coating Bake Evaluation Method (No 
Method Available. Required for GM Holden 
Only). Place 1 drop of Methyl Ethyl Ketone (MEK) 
on a suitable area of the test panel. After 30 s 
remove any remaining MEK by wiping with dry 
cotton wool. Test the area for hardness by thumb 
nail vs. original surface. 
пӮ· 
Type B: Slight softening is acceptable. 
Considerable softening and/or partial removal 
of the coating indicates under baking and is 
cause for rejection. 
пӮ· 
Type C: Test is not required. 
4 Manufacturing Process 
Not applicable. 
5 Rules and Regulations  
5.1 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules 
and Regulations for Material Specifications. 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14664 
 
В© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
June 2009 
Page 4 of 8 
 
5.2 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. 
6 Approved Sources 
Engineering qualifications of an approved source 
are required for this standard. Only sources listed 
in the GM Materials File (i.e., GM Supply Power) 
under this standard number have been qualified by 
engineering as meeting the requirements of this 
standard. 
For 
other 
GM 
locations, 
the 
responsible 
Engineering group should be contacted to obtain 
the approved source in that individual country. 
7 Notes 
7.1 Glossary. 
CIELAB: The standard short-form is defined in 
SAE J1545 and SAE J1767 to explain color 
terminology. 
CIE 
stands 
for 
Commission 
International de l'Eclairage. LAB is the short-form 
to indicate the color values on the three-
dimensional axes, L*, a* and b*. This is usually, 
very simply, denoted as CIELAB, in the Uppercase 
and by omitting the asterisk, as shown. 
Delta E (пҒ„E*): A resultant color change calculated 
by the equation: 
 
вҲҶрқ‘¬вҲ—=  вҲҶрқ‘івҲ—рқҹҗ+ вҲҶрқ’ӮвҲ—рқҹҗ+ вҲҶрқ’ғвҲ—рқҹҗ 
 
L*A*B* Color System: A color measurement 
system using orthogonal coordinates to describe 
color. The L* axis is the white-black (light-dark) 
axis with a large L* = light and a small L* = dark. 
The a* axis is the red-green axis where (+a*) = red 
and (-a*) = green. The b* axis is the yellow-blue 
axis where (+b*) = yellow and (-b*) = blue. 
 
 
Figure 1: CIELAB Coordinate System 
Langley: A traditional unit of measure for natural 
light energy defined as 1 g-cal/cm2. A Langley is 
equivalent to 0.04184 MJ/m2. 
Note: The Langley is restricted by definition to the 
expression of natural light energy. The MJ/m2 is a 
more universally recognized unit of energy 
measurement. However, for the purposes of this 
specification, it is not appropriate to compare 
natural light exposure energies (measured over the 
total solar or the UV radiation wavelength ranges) 
and usually expressed in MJ/m2 with artificial light 
exposure energies (measured over a very narrow 
wavelength range) and usually expressed in kJ/m2. 
Percent (%) Gloss Loss: 
 
{(initial gloss-final gloss)/initial gloss} x 100} 
 
Specular Gloss: The ratio, expressed as a 
percent, of the quantity of light reflected from a 
surface to the quantity incident on the surface in 
the specular (mirror reflected) direction. 
Temperature Normalized Radiation (TNR): Total 
solar radiation measured under test fixture glazing 
and adjusted both to relate the various limit 
temperature fixtures to a common reference 
temperature and to account for the difference in 
time spent at the fixture limiting temperature during 
the various seasons. This allows testing throughout 
the entire year with comparable results. 
Total Solar Radiation: Natural light less than 
3000 nm in wavelength. 
Ultraviolet (UV) Radiation: Natural light less than 
400 nm in wavelength. 
7.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. 
h 
 
 
hour(s) 
MEK 
 
Methyl Ethyl Ketone (MEK) 
nm  
 
nanometer 
TNR 
 
Temperature Normalized Radiation 
UV  
 
Ultraviolet 
8 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, etc., as follows: 
вҖңPowder coated, black F785 to GMW14664 вҖ“ BвҖқ 
Where: 
Powder coated, black F 785 = Designation of 
coating. 
B = Type of paragraph 1.3. 
Material per GMW14664 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14664 
 
В© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
June 2009 
Page 5 of 8 
 
9 Release and Revisions 
9.1 Release. This standard originated in October 
2005, replacing GME 00202. It was first approved 
by GM Global Metallic Materials Engineering in 
August 2006. It was first published in January 
2007. 
9.2 Revisions. 
Rev 
Approval 
Date 
Description (Organization) 
A 
JUN 2009 
1.3 Type B, Level I, added, all 
specific colors, Level II added 
non color-matched. Omitted 
SAE 
J1885 
from 
2.1. 
Appendix 
B: 
Regional 
Requirements for Natural and 
Accelerated 
Weathering 
Specification 
changed 
for 
regions 
AP/GMDAT, 
AP/PATAC, GME and GMNA 
to GMW3417. Codes L1, F2, 
G1, T5 and test method for 
these regions to  Type B: 
105,000 TNR Langleys. Table 
B2: 
for 
regions 
AP/GM 
Holden/LAAM/Mercosur/GMN
A/AP/GMDAT/AP/PATAC 
omitted 
SAE 
J1885 
and 
replaced 
with 
GMW14162. 
(Finishes 
and 
Coatings 
GSSLT) 
 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14664 
 
В© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
June 2009 
Page 6 of 8 
 
Appendix A 
 
Table A1: Requirements for Corrosion Test (GME, GM Holden and GM-LAAM/Mercosur) 
 
Type B 
Type C 
Specification 
Test to GMW3286 
h Exposure Required 
144 
336 
Acceptance Criteria 
No corrosion (except along scribe lines), blistering, or other appearance changes are 
allowed. 
Specification 
Test Total scribe creepback per GMW15282 
Acceptance Criteria 
3 mm maximum for all substrates except zinc, and 6 mm maximum for zinc coated 
and plated steel. The evaluation of scribe creepback can be determined by scrape 
and blow off with compressed air per GMW15282 or by using tape adhesion per 
GMW14829 paragraphs 5.3.5 through 5.3.7. 
Note: Slight rust at edges is permitted for type C, but shall not exceed 20% of the length of exposed edges. 
 
Table A2: Requirements for Cyclic Corrosion Test (GMNA, AP/GMDAT, AP/PATAC) 
Test Class Suffix 
Type B 
Type C 
Vehicle Area 
Interior 
Underhood or Underbody 
Mounting Location 
All (Area I and Area II) 
All 
Method 
SH 
SH 
Cyclic Corrosion and Scribe Creepback per GMW14872 and GMW15282 
 
Exposure 
Required 
Exposure C Note 1, Note 2, Note 3 
Exposure B Note 1, Note 2, Note 4 
Gravelometer and Cyclic Corrosion per GMW14700 and GMW14872 
 
Exposure 
Required 
Not applicable 
Exposure A Note 2, Note 5 
For All Types and Locations: Mass loss targets are defined in GMW14872 Appendix A, Table A1. 
Note 1: Acceptance Criteria: Maximum allowable creepback is 6 mm on bare steel and cast iron substrates and 3 mm creepback on all 
other substrates. 
Note 2: Acceptance Criteria: Corrosion rating of 8 or better per GMW15357. 
Note 3: Test per GMW14872 Table A1 Interior вҖңLowвҖқ mount location. 
Note 4: Test per GMW14872 Table A1 Underhood, вҖңAllвҖқ (Low, Mid, or High) mount locations. 
Note 5: Test per GMW14872 Table A1 Underbody, вҖңAllвҖқ mount locations. 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14664 
 
В© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
June 2009 
Page 7 of 8 
 
Appendix B: Regional Requirements for Natural and Accelerated Weathering 
 
Table B1: Natural Weathering Note 1 
Region 
Specification 
Location/ 
Instrument 
Test Method 
Requirement 
AP/GM 
Holden 
HN0283 
Allunga, 
Queensland, 
Australia 
 
GM Black 
Box Fixture 
For Type B 
Exposed due north 20 degrees 
from horizontal under glass 
(southern hemisphere). 
Area I (in direct sunlight): 
110 000 Langleys 
 
Area II (not in direct sunlight): 
55 000 Langleys 
No cracking, blistering, loss of 
adhesion or other surface 
destruction. 
Color change after test: 
CIELAB color scale, пҒ„E* пӮЈ 3.0 
(D65 illuminant, 10 degree 
observer, 45 degree 
geometry), with visual 
approval is preferred. 
Maximum unpolished gloss 
loss shall be вүӨ 50%, 
Maximum gloss loss on 
polished shall be вүӨ 20%. 
GM LAAM/ 
Mercosur 
GMW3417 
Code L5 Note 1 
 
Cruz Alta 
Proving 
Ground 
Exposure 
GM Black 
Box Fixture 
For Type B: Expose the 
panels 20 degrees facing north 
under glass by Area: 
Area I: 110 000 Langleys 
Area II: 25 000 Langleys 
AP/GMDAT 
AP/PATAC, 
GME, 
GMNA 
GMW3417 
Codes L1, 
F2, G1, T5 
 
For Type B:  
Area I: 105 000 TNR Langleys 
Area II: not required 
All Regions: Type C parts do not have any Natural Weathering requirements. 
Deviations from the above standards shall be agreed upon with the responsible Materials Engineer. 
Note 1: Test Fixture, Glass Type, and High Temperature Limits per GMW3417 are regional requirements. Consult with GM Materials 
Engineering for the specific regional requirements. 
 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14664 
 
В© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
June 2009 
Page 8 of 8 
 
Table B2: Accelerated Weathering 
Region 
Specification/Test Method 
Requirements: 
 
Type B 
Type C 
 
GME 
GMW14162 (B), 
300 to 400 nm, 
Area I = 28 MJ, 
Area II = 14 MJ 
Not 
applicable 
No cracking, blistering, loss of adhesion or other 
surface destruction. Color change after test: CIELAB 
color scale, пҒ„E* пӮЈ 3.0 (D65 illuminant, 10 degree 
observer, 45 degree geometry), with visual approval 
is preferred. 
Maximum unpolished gloss loss shall be вүӨ 50%, 
Maximum gloss loss on polished shall be вүӨ 20%. 
For Type B parts that cannot be measured for gloss, 
after exposure parts must fulfill value 3 or more per 
ISO 105-A02 grey scale. 
AP/GM Holden 
Test to GMW 14162 
Area I = 720 kJ/m2  
(in direct sunlight) 
 
Area II = 360 kJ/m2 
(not in direct sunlight) 
Not 
applicable 
No cracking, blistering, loss of adhesion or other 
surface destruction. Color change after test: CIELAB 
color scale, пҒ„E* пӮЈ 3.0 (D65 illuminant, 10 degree 
observer, 45 degree geometry), with visual approval 
is preferred. 
Maximum unpolished gloss loss shall be вүӨ 50%, 
Maximum gloss loss on polished shall be вүӨ 20%. 
For Type B parts that cannot be measured for gloss, 
after exposure parts must fulfill value 3 or more per 
ISO 105-A02 grey scale. 
LAAM/Mercosur, 
GMNA, 
AP/GMDAT, 
AP/PATAC 
Area I = 1240.8 kJ/m2 
per GMW14162 
Cycle D 
Area II = not required 
Not 
applicable 
No cracking, blistering, loss of adhesion or other 
surface destruction. Color change after test: CIELAB 
color scale, пҒ„E* пӮЈ 3.0 (D65 illuminant, 10 degree 
observer, 45 degree geometry), with visual approval 
is preferred. 
Maximum unpolished gloss loss shall be вүӨ 50%, 
Maximum gloss loss on polished shall be вүӨ 20%. 
For Type B parts that cannot be measured for gloss, 
after exposure parts must fulfill value 3 or more per 
ISO 105-A02 grey scale. 
 
