# GMW 14170_2009.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
General Specification 
Elastomer 
GMW14170 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coating Requirements for Elastomeric Seals 
 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
July 2009 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 7 
 
1 Introduction 
Note: 
Nothing in this standard supersedes 
applicable laws and regulations. 
Note: In the event of conflict between the English 
and domestic language, the English language shall 
take precedence. 
1.1 
Scope. 
This 
specification 
covers 
the 
requirements of coatings on weatherstrips in the 
body area. 
1.2 Mission/Theme. Not applicable. 
1.3 Classification. Not applicable. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ISO 105-X12 
ISO 23529 
ISO 188 
 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
9981062 
GME8555 
9982223 
GMW3001 
9984242 
GMW3059 
9984259 
GMW14650 
9984434 
GMW14757 
9984505 
GMW15691 
9984508 
GMW15726 
9984515 
L 000 0207 
9985670 
L 000 0242 
B 040 0218 
L 000 0555 
B 440 0029 
L 000 0556 
3 Test Preparation and Evaluation 
3.1 Resources. 
3.1.1 Calibration. The test facilities and equipment 
shall be in good working order and shall have a 
valid calibration label. 
3.1.2 Alternatives. Alternative test facilities and 
equipment may also be used. However, all 
measuring variables as specified in this standard 
shall be determined correctly with respect to their 
physical definition. 
3.1.3 Facilities. Conforming to the relevant test 
procedures. 
3.1.4 Equipment. Conforming to the relevant test 
procedures. 
3.1.4.1 Suitable apparatus for determination of the 
thickness of the coating. (Reference GMW15726). 
3.1.4.2 Scalpel suitable for cross-hatching through 
the coating. 
3.1.4.3 
Adhesive 
tape: 
Scotch 
8981, 
Tesaband 4651, Tesaband 4661, or equivalent. 
3.1.4.4 Mandrel of diameter 50 mm. 
3.1.5 Test Vehicle/Test Piece. Unless otherwise 
specified, the shape, size and number of test 
pieces shall be in accordance with the relevant test 
procedure. 
3.1.5.1 The number of test pieces required for 
material approval is defined in Appendix A 
Table A1. 
3.1.5.2 For Design and Product Validation, test 
pieces shall be cut from at least three finished 
parts; for routine quality control from at least one 
finished part. 
3.1.6 Test Time. Not applicable. 
3.1.7 Test Required Information. Not applicable. 
3.1.8 Personnel/Skills. Not applicable. 
3.2 Preparation. Not applicable. 
3.3 Conditions. The minimum time between 
vulcanization and testing of elastomers shall be 
72 h. The test pieces shall be maintained at a 
temperature of 23 ± 5°C for at least 8 h prior to test 
and shall be free from strain during this period. 
3.3.1 Environmental Conditions. Not applicable. 
3.3.2 Test Conditions. Deviations from the 
requirements of this standard shall have been 
agreed upon. Such requirements shall be specified 
on component drawings, test certificates, reports, 
etc. 
3.4 Instructions. Not applicable. 
3.5 Data. Not applicable. 
3.6 Safety. This standard may involve hazardous 
materials, 
operations, 
and 
equipment. 
This 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14170 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
July 2009 
Page 2 of 7 
 
standard does not propose to address all the 
safety problems associated with its use. It is the 
responsibility of the user of this standard to 
establish appropriate safety and health practices 
and determine the applicability of regulatory 
limitations prior to use. 
3.7 Documentation. Samples of components or 
material released to this standard shall be tested 
for conformity with the requirements of this 
standard and approved by the responsible GM 
Department prior to the start of delivery of 
production level components or materials. 
Any change to the component or material, e.g., 
design, function, properties, manufacturing process 
and/or location of manufacture requires a new 
release of the product. It is the sole responsibility 
of the supplier to provide the customer, unsolicited, 
with documentation of any change or modification 
to the product/process and to apply for a new 
release. 
If not otherwise agreed to, the entire verification 
test shall be repeated and documented by the 
supplier prior to start of delivery of the modified or 
changed product. In some cases, a shorter test 
can be agreed to between the responsible GM 
department and the supplier.  
3.7.1 Test Results. With reference to this standard 
the test results shall be presented in a test report. 
4 Requirements and Procedure 
4.1 Appearance. The sealing surface shall be 
coated in the area defined on the drawing or in the 
math data file. The coating shall be uniform and 
free from breaks or porosity. 
4.2 Performance Requirements. If a seal consists 
of several sections, the specified tests shall be 
conducted on each section. Unless otherwise 
stated, the tests and evaluations shall be 
performed at the temperature of 23 ± 5°C. See 
Table 1. 
Samples are to be taken from finished parts. 
 
Table 1: Coating Requirements 
Property 
Test Procedure 
Unit 
Value 
4.2.1 Coating Thickness Measurement. 
All Types  
GMW15726 
 
Coating thickness 
microns 
 
14 ± 3  
Unless otherwise specified 
on drawing or math data 
file. 
4.2.2 Adhesion Strength. 
All Types  
Square cut test piece of 20 mm minimum. 
The coating shall be cross-hatched through to the base 
material at intervals of approximately 1 mm. The adhesive 
tape shall be pressed onto the surface of the cured lacquer, 
such that its side edge is at an angle of 45 degrees to the 
cross-hatching lines.  
Visual inspection 
 
After stripping off the tape, 
no cured coating shall be 
removed from the test 
piece. 
 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14170 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
July 2009 
Page 3 of 7 
 
Property 
Test Procedure 
Unit 
Value 
4.2.3 Heat Resistance. 
All Types 
ISO 188 Method B, 24 (-2) h at 90 ± 3°C 
Test piece: length 200 ± 5 mm, width 4 ± 1 mm, 
thickness 1 to 2 mm 
Visual inspection. 
Bend 180 degrees around radius of 25 ± 0.5 mm 
Visual Examination 
 
 
 
 
No visual change in coating. 
No cracks. 
No loss of adhesion. 
4.2.4 Cold Resistance (Low Temperature Flexibility). 
All Types 
ISO 23529, -40 ± 3°C; 4 ± 0.5 h 
Test piece: length 200 ± 5 mm , width 4 ± 1 mm, 
thickness 1 to 2 mm. 
Bend 180 degrees around radius of 25 ± 0.5 mm. 
Visual Examination 
 
 
 
No cracks. 
No loss of adhesion. 
4.2.5 Chemical and Abrasion Resistance. 
All Types 
ISO 105-X12. (Crockmeter) 
Test piece shall have a uniform thickness over 
the total width. If the width of the test piece is 
smaller than the rubbing finger, the downward 
force shall be reduced adequately (See Appendix 
B Table B2). 
Test Conditions: Cylinder 16 mm diameter, 
80 mm minimum travel, 1 cycle/s, cotton crocking 
cloth. 
Downward force of 9 N, (one cycle shall be one to 
and fro movement). 
 
Dry test fabric. 
 
Wet test fabric (Deionized water). 
Pre-wetting shall be repeated after 50 cycles. 
 
With test fabric soaked in cleaning anti-freeze 
solution B 040 0218 (2-Propanol): Water = 1:2. 
Pre-wetting shall be repeated after 50 cycles. 
 
Test fabric soaked in windshield wash solvent 
9985670 (Methanol): Water = 2:3. Pre-wetting 
shall be repeated after 50 cycles. 
 
No judgment shall be made of the cloth; only the 
coated surface shall be evaluated. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cycles 
 
 
cycles 
 
 
cycles 
 
 
cycles 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coating shall not be abraded 
after: 
 
 
100 minimum 
 
 
100 minimum 
 
 
100 minimum 
 
 
100 minimum 
 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14170 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
July 2009 
Page 4 of 7 
 
Property 
Test Procedure 
Unit 
Value 
4.2.6 Coating Cure Test. 
All Types 
ISO 105-X12. (Crockmeter). 
Test piece shall have a uniform thickness over 
the total width. If the width of the test piece is 
smaller than the rubbing finger, the downward 
force shall be reduced adequately (See Appendix 
B Table B2). 
Test Conditions: Cylinder 16 mm diameter, 
80 mm minimum travel, 1 cycle/s, cotton crocking 
cloth. 
Downward force of 4.3 N, 5 cycles (one cycle 
shall be one to and fro movement). 
Naphtha (9981062 or B 440 0029). 
 
Rating 0 or 1 to Table B1 in 
Appendix B. 
The rating of the coated 
surface overrides the rating of 
the cloth, if only cloth is out of 
requirement. 
4.2.7 Cleaning and Solvent Resistance. 
All Types 
ISO 105-X12. (Crockmeter). 
Test piece and test conditions: See Chemical and 
Abrasion Resistance. 
Downward force of 4.3 N, 10 cycles (1 cycle shall 
be 1 to and fro movement). 
Protective wax to L 000 0555 and L 000 0556 or 
9982223. 
Commercial car shampoo (e.g., Sonax 314300). 
Commercial paintwork cleaning product (e.g., 
Sonax 302200). 
Commercial household ammoniated window 
cleaner (e.g., Windex). 
Commercial chrome cleaner and polish (e.g., GM 
chrome cleaner and polish, Part No. 1050173). 
 
No staining, discoloration, 
surface softening, or loss of 
grain. 
Rating 0 or 1 to Table B1 in 
Appendix B. 
The rating of the coated 
surface overrides the rating of 
the cloth, if only cloth is out of 
requirement. 
4.2.8 Wear Resistance Test. 
Body Mounted Primary and 
Secondary Seals Only 
GMW15691 
cycles 
No wear-through of the coating 
after 10 000 minimum. 
4.2.9 Weatherometer. Note 1
 
Only on parts where the 
coated surface is exposed 
GMW14650, Weather-Ometer Resistance Class 3. 
 
Change of surface. 
 
 
 
Color change E. 
 
Visual appearance change that is considered 
unacceptable shall override the E measurement. 
 
Examination of surface under 50X magnification. 
 
 
No surface tackiness or 
embrittlement, No change in 
hardness, No blooming, 
blistering or other factors that 
may affect function or 
appearance. 
3.0 maximum 
 
No objectionable surface 
defects or color change. 
 
No cracking, pores or other 
surface damage. 
 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14170 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
July 2009 
Page 5 of 7 
 
Property 
Test Procedure 
Unit 
Value 
4.2.10 Test on Substances that Could Affect Repair Painting. 
Parts with direct contact to 
painted body panels 
GME8555. Test material is positioned on a test panel and 
loaded with a cylindrical weight of 1 kg and a diameter of 
50 mm. The test material is pulled by hand 5 times in both 
directions over the length of the panel. (GME8555 Section 
5.3.5.1). 
Paint Application - The test panel is painted with: 
L 000 0207 solid color waterborne basecoat + L 000 0242 
clear coat. 
9984434 basecoat + 9984259 and 9984515 clear coat. 
9984505 basecoat + 9984242 and 9984508 clear coat. 
according to the paint material specification. (GME8555 
Section 5.3.15). 
Evaluation of the painted test panel after bake. 
Further information, see GME8555. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The surface shall be free 
from paint irritation or 
craters. 
4.2.11 Resistance to Adhesion to Glass, Paint, or other Mating Materials. 
All Types 
GMW14757 dry and wet (tap water) conditions 
 
Pull off force. 
 
 
N 
 
 
4 maximum 
There shall be no transfer 
of coating to the glass, 
painted panel, or other 
mating substrate material. 
Note 1: Other than class 3 requirements must be specified on drawing or math data file. 
 
5 Provisions for Shipping 
5.1 Other Additional Requirements. See relevant 
component drawings for additional requirements. 
6 Notes 
6.1 Glossary. Not applicable. 
6.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. Not 
applicable. 
7 Additional Paragraphs 
7.1 All parts or systems supplied to this standard 
must comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts.  
7.2 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules 
and Regulations for Materials Specifications. 
8 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, etc., as follows: 
GMW14170 
9 Release and Revisions 
9.1 Release. This standard originated in June 
2005. It was first approved by the Global 
Elastomers Team in April 2005. It was first 
published in June 2006. 
It supersedes all regional standards for Coating 
Requirements for Elastomeric Seals for use on 
Global Engineered materials including EDS-M-
7306, GME 01002, GMN10029, and HN2085. 
9.2 Revisions. 
Rev 
Approval 
Date 
Description (Organization) 
A 
AUG 2008 
Complete revision, replacing 
local 
test 
standards 
with 
respective GMW standards. 
(Global Elastomers Team) 
B 
JUL 2009 
Update Table 1, Appendices 
A and B. Updated to 2009 
standards template. (Global 
Elastomers Team) 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14170 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
July 2009 
Page 6 of 7 
 
Appendix A 
 
Table A1: Test Pieces Required 
Material and Performance 
Requirements 
Design Validation 
Testing 
Product Validation 
Testing 
Audit/Inspection 
Testing 
(Routine Quality 
Control) 
Coating Thickness 
3 
3 
2 
Adhesion Strength 
3 
3 
2 
Heat Resistance 
3 
3 
2 
Cold Resistance 
3 
3 
2 
Chemical and Abrasion Resistance 
Dry Test Fabric 
3 
3 
2 
Wet Test Fabric 
3 
3 
----- 
Test Fabric Soaked 
 in Water with B 040 0218 
3 
3 
----- 
Test fabric soaked 
 in water with 9985670 
3 
3 
----- 
Coating Cure Test 
3 
3 
----- 
Cleaning and Solvent Resistance 
Protective Wax 
3 
3 
----- 
Commercial Car Shampoo 
3 
3 
----- 
Commercial Paintwork 
Cleaning Product 
3 
3 
----- 
Commercial Household  
Ammoniated Window Cleaner 
3 
3 
----- 
Commercial Chrome  
Cleaner and Polish 
3 
3 
----- 
Wear Resistance Test 
3 
----- 
----- 
Weatherometer 
3 
3 
----- 
Test on Substances that could Affect 
Repair Painting 
3 
----- 
----- 
Resistance to Adhesion to Glass, Paint, 
or other Mating Materials 
3 
----- 
----- 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14170 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
July 2009 
Page 7 of 7 
 
Appendix B 
 
Table B1: Coating Cure Test Ratings 
Rating 
Coated Surface 
Residue on Cloth 
0 
No Change 
None 
1 
Slight - Barely Observable 
Trace Amount 
3 
Moderate - Readily Noticeable 
Readily Noticeable 
5 
Severe – Very Obvious 
Saturated with Color 
 
Table B2: Force Reduction Guidelines 
Downward 
Force (N) 
Mass to Achieve 
Downward Force 
(kg) 
Width of Test 
Piece (mm) 
Contact 
Area (mm²) 
Downward Force 
Per Contact Area 
(N/mm²) 
Mass Calculated To 
Test Piece Width 
(kg) 
9.0 
0.92 
16 
201 
9.00 
0.92 
14 
191 
8.53 
0.87 
12 
172 
7.70 
0.79 
10 
149 
6.66 
0.68 
8 
122 
5.48 
0.56 
6 
94 
4.19 
0.43 
4.3 
0.44 
16 
201 
4.30 
0.44 
14 
191 
4.08 
0.42 
12 
172 
3.68 
0.38 
10 
149 
3.18 
0.33 
8 
122 
2.62 
0.27 
6 
94 
2.15 
0.20 
 
