# GMW 14671_2009.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Material Specification 
Finish 
GMW14671 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Organic Coating Performance for Underhood and Underbody 
Components 
 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
May 2009 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 4 
 
1 Scope 
1.1 Material Description. This standard gives 
performance requirements for organic coat finishes 
on the surfaces of underhood and underbody 
components. It also gives opportunity to specify the 
type of coating material to be used. 
1.2 Symbols. Not applicable. 
1.3 Typical Applications. These coatings are 
typically used on chassis components, as well as 
other underhood and underbody components. 
1.4 Remarks. This specification applies in two 
different ways. Either it can be used for paint 
materials that have been approved to other 
appropriate GM specifications (e.g., 998XXXX; 
these materials will show as APPROVED in the 
GM MATSPC database), or it is applicable for 
materials that have not been approved by GM. 
Depending on the material qualification status, the 
X’s in Table A1 indicate the tests to be performed. 
The usage of non-approved paint materials is only 
permitted through the calendar year 2011. 
Seven “types” of paint are covered by this 
specification: Types A and B are both cathodic  
e-coats in two different thickness ranges. Type C is 
dip primer other than cathodic e-coat. Type D is 
powder coating. If Type E is specified, the 
applicator is free to choose Type A, B, C, or D, but 
they must stay with this choice. Type F is to be 
further specified on the drawing using notes or a 
paint material specification. Type G is solvent or 
water-based spray-applied paint. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
None 
 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
9984120 
GMW14700 
9984123 
GMW14729 
EMS 9309574 
GMW14829 
GM6094M 
GMW14872 
GME L0004 
GMW15282 
GMW3001 
GMW15357 
GMW3059 
GMW15487 
GMW3286 
GMW15891 
GMW14333 
 
2.3 Additional References. Not applicable. 
3 Requirements 
3.1 Requirements on Test Specimens. Not 
applicable. 
3.2 General. 
3.2.1 Coatings shall be free of Chrome VI. 
3.2.2 Chrome VI used as an adhesion promoter is 
impermissible. 
3.2.3 Post-treatment, if performed, shall be 
Chrome VI free. 
3.3 Coating Thickness. If parts have cavities that 
are prone to corrosion (e.g., cradle), a coating type 
must be selected which is able to protect the cavity 
areas with a minimum coating thickness of 10 m. 
Types A, B, and C are usually chosen for this type 
of application, or Type F is called out along with a 
specific paint material specification. 
3.3.1 Type A. Cathodic e-coat, coating thickness: 
16 to 22 m. 
3.3.2 Type B. Cathodic e-coat, coating thickness: 
23 to 35 m. 
3.3.3 Type C. Dip primer (except cathodic e-coat), 
coating thickness: ≥ 30 m. 
3.3.4 Type D. Powder coating, coating thickness: 
≥ 40 m. 
3.3.5 Type E. Coating thickness to be as specified 
for Type A, B, C or D, whichever has been chosen 
for the application. 
3.3.6 Type F. For this type the thickness shall be 
defined on the drawing or in the specified paint 
material standard. 
3.3.7 Type G. Spray paint (e.g., electrostatic 
application of solvent based paints or water based 
paints). Coating thickness: ≥ 40 m. 
3.4 Cross Hatch Test. Paint adhesion shall be 
tested according to GMW14829 – Rating 0 or 1 at 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14671 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
May 2009 
Page 2 of 4 
 
delivery 
conditions 
and 
after 
high 
humidity 
exposure (see 3.6). 
For Types C and F paints that are cured at 115°C 
or less on components which are exposed to 
service conditions in excess of 80°C: Parts shall be 
exposed for 120 ± 5 h in a drying oven at 
+120 ± 3°C before conducting the Cross Hatch 
Test. 
3.5 Corrosion Testing. 
3.5.1 Cyclic Corrosion Test. See Table 1 for the 
testing criteria for parts by location on the vehicle. 
After exposure to cyclic corrosion testing per 
GMW14872, the parts shall have a corrosion rating 
of 8 or better per the GM Engineering Corrosion 
Standards Rating Scale per GMW15357. Part 
performance records shall be kept for reference 
and be available for review. Records shall indicate 
the part performance and the coupon mass loss at 
regular intervals (i.e., 5 cycles and 10 cycles). 
Remark: Cyclic Corrosion Test must be done for 
Production 
Part 
Approval 
Process 
(PPAP). 
Exemption can be granted only by the responsible 
GM Regional Materials Engineer if non-approved 
paint materials will be used. 
3.5.2 Salt Spray Fog Test (see Table A1). To be 
also performed if non-approved paint materials will 
be used and is then part of PPAP. 
The salt spray fog test may continue to be used as 
part of a development program when directed by 
GM Materials Engineering. 
Parts shall be exposed to salt spray fog per 
GMW3286 for 336 h. 
There shall be no corrosion (except along scribe 
lines), blisters or any change of surface. Total 
corrosion creepback according to GMW15282 shall 
be 3 mm maximum (e.g., bare steel). The 
evaluation of the creepback can be realized by 
blowing with compressed air or by using adhesive 
tape. Slight rust is permitted but shall not exceed 
20% of the length of exposed edges. 
The following deviation for Painted Parts having 
Zinc and Zinc Alloy Coated Substrates: 
Salt spray fog test for 240 h according to 
GMW3286. Testing has to be done without a 
scribe line. No corrosion or any change of surface 
is allowed. Slight white corrosion is permitted at 
edges, but shall not exceed 20% of the length of 
edges. Red rust shall not exceed 5% of the length 
of edges. Creep Corrosion within 8 mm from edges 
is permitted and shall be a maximum of one-third 
of the painted surface. 
3.6 Resistance to High Humidity Environment. 
Painted parts shall be exposed for 144 h to a high 
humidity environment according to GMW14729 
with no evidence of blistering or any other change 
of appearance. 
 
Table 1: Testing Criteria Note 1 
Test Class Suffix 
Location 
U/H 
Underhood 
U/B 
Underbody 
Gravelometer then 
Cyclic Corrosion 
(GMW14700 Method C 
and GMW14872) 
N/A 
Expose parts in Gravelometer per 
GMW14700 Method C, then expose 
the same parts in Cyclic Corrosion per 
GMW14872, UB, All, 4s, Method 
SH/SM, Exposure A. 
Cyclic Corrosion and 
Corrosion Creepback 
(GMW14872 and 
GMW15282) 
Scribe parts per GMW15282, then 
expose the same parts in Cyclic 
Corrosion per GMW14872, UH, All, 4s, 
Method SH/SM, Exposure B..Evaluate 
creepback per GMW15282 Note 2. 
N/A 
Note 1: The Testing Criteria will be indicated by the Test Class Suffix (for example, GMW14671 – F-U/B). When the Test Class Suffix is 
not indicated (for example, GMW14671 – F), the Testing Criteria will be based on the part’s location on the vehicle per the following: 
Underhood Parts: Cyclic Corrosion and Corrosion Creepback per U/H Underhood column in Table 1. 
Underbody Parts: Gravelometer then Cyclic Corrosion per U/B Underbody column in Table 1. 
Note 2: Maximum allowable creepback per GMW15282 is 6 mm on bare steel and cast iron substrates and 3 mm on all other substrates. 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14671 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
May 2009 
Page 3 of 4 
 
3.7 
Stone 
Impact 
Resistance. 
Test 
to 
GMW14700, Method C. Chip size rating shall be 7 
minimum. Only chips to substrate will be rated. 
Chip frequency shall be a maximum of High. The 
test piece wherever possible shall be the finished 
part. If this is impracticable, the test shall be 
conducted on samples cut from the finished part, 
or, if necessary, specially prepared organic coated 
test panels with equal substrate and painting 
material. 
3.8 Cure. There shall be a rating of 0 or 1 after the 
cure test per GMW15891. 
3.9 Resistance of the Coating to Oil, Fuel, 
Battery Acid and Abrasion. If parts may be 
subject to abrasion or have contact with oil, fuel or 
battery acid, parts shall be tested according to 
3.9.1, 3.9.2, 3.9.3, or 3.9.4. The necessity of one of 
these tests shall be defined on the drawing, using 
a suffix Z (see second example in Section 8). 
3.9.1 Oil Resistance. The test piece shall be 
immersed in engine oil (e.g., GME L0004, 
GM6094M or EMS 9309574) and then exposed for 
24 ± 5 h in a drying oven at +100 ± 3°C. 
After cooling to +23 ± 5°C, the paint film shall show 
no separation or softening. 
3.9.2 Fuel Resistance. Fuel resistance shall be 
determined according to GMW14333 – A – 
Rating 2. 
3.9.3 Resistance to Battery Acid. Drops of a 
solution of sulfuric acid, 38% by mass (solution 
corresponds to battery acid) shall be placed on test 
parts. Then parts shall be stored in a vessel for 
24 h at +23 ± 5°C. After the test, the parts shall be 
cleaned by distilled water. There shall be no visible 
changes caused by the direct effect of battery acid. 
3.9.4 
Abrasion 
Resistance. 
Test 
abrasion 
resistance according to GMW15487 – 0.7 L/m 
minimum. 
4 Manufacturing Process 
Not applicable. 
5 Rules and Regulations 
5.1 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules 
and Regulations for Material Specifications. 
5.2 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. 
6 Approved Sources 
Not applicable (see Table A1). 
7 Notes 
7.1 Glossary. 
PPAP Production Part Approval Process 
U/B 
Underbody 
U/H 
Underhood 
7.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. Not 
applicable. 
8 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, etc., as follows: 
Examples: 
1. 
“PAINTED 
BLACK. 
PERFORMANCE 
TO 
GMW14671 – B-U/B” is for cathodic e-coat 
23 to 35 m thick, on an underbody component. 
2. 
“PAINTED 
BLACK. 
PERFORMANCE 
TO 
GMW14671 – D-U/H, Z. Z = RESISTANCE TO 
BATTERY 
ACID” 
is 
for 
a 
powder 
coated 
component underhood that may come into contact 
with battery acid. 
3. “PRETREAT PER 9984123, AND E-COAT PER 
9984120. PERFORMANCE PER GMW14671 –  
F-U/B” is for an underbody component that is 
pretreated 
using 
materials 
that 
have 
been 
approved to 9984123 and e-coated using materials 
that are approved to 9984120. 
9 Release and Revisions 
9.1 Release. This standard originated in OCT 2005 
replacing 
GME 
00201, 
the 
underhood 
and 
underbody portions of GM4350M, and HN 2194 – 
class B336. It was first approved by Global 
Materials Team in MAY 2007. It was first published 
in AUG 2007. 
9.2 Revisions. 
Rev 
Approval 
Date 
Description (Organization) 
A 
May 2009 
Total reformat into GMW 
Material Specification 
template. Revised 1.4, 2.1, 
2.2, 3.3, 3.3.1, 3.3.2, 3.3.5, 
3.4, 3.5, 3.5.1, 3.5.2, 3.7, 3.8, 
3.9, 3.9.1, 3.9.2, 3.9.3, 3.9.4, 
7.1, 8, 9.1, Table 1. Added 
3.1 and Table A1. (Global 
Finishes & Coatings Team) 
 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14671 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
May 2009 
Page 4 of 4 
 
Appendix A 
Table A1: Required Tests for Approved (e.g., 998XXXX) and Non-Approved Materials 
Required Tests 
Approved Material Note 1 
Non-Approved Material 
3.4 Cross Hatch Test 
X 
X 
3.5.1 Cyclic Corrosion Test 
X 
X 
3.5.2 Salt Spray Fog Test 
 
X 
3.6 Resistance to High Humidity Environment 
X 
X 
3.7 Stone Impact Resistance 
X 
X 
3.8 Cure 
X 
X 
3.9.1 Oil Resistance 
See Suffix Z 
See Suffix Z 
3.9.2 Fuel Resistance 
See Suffix Z 
See Suffix Z 
3.9.3 Resistance to Batter Acid 
See Suffix Z 
See Suffix Z 
3.9.4 Abrasion Resistance 
See Suffix Z 
X 
Note 1: GM-approved material, as listed in MATSPC. 
 
