# GMW 14169_2008.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Material Specification 
Elastomer 
GMW14169 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Requirements for Dense Elastomeric Body Seals 
 
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
August 2008 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 8
 
1 Introduction 
Note: Nothing in this standard supersedes 
applicable laws and regulations. 
Note: In the event of conflict between the English 
and domestic language, the English language shall 
take precedence. 
1.1 
Scope. 
This 
specification 
covers 
the 
requirements of dense elastomeric seals used in 
sealing body openings e.g., on doors. 
1.2 Mission/Theme. Not applicable. 
1.3 Classification. 
1.3.1 Material Description. The bulb or sealing 
portion of the weatherstrips shall be made from 
EPDM (ethylene propylene diene monomer) or 
TPE (thermoplastic elastomer). The specifications 
for the carrier shall be specified on the engineering 
part drawing or in the math data file. 
Weatherstrip 
assemblies 
shall 
consist 
of 
continuous extruded sections or sections joined 
together. These sections shall be joined by either 
transfer or injection molded joints, or mitered joints 
securely attached with suitable adhesive. Joint 
offsets in visible and sealed areas must be no 
greater than 0.25 mm. 
1.3.2 Coatings. When applied, coatings shall be 
non-abrasive and uniform in color, finish, and 
texture. Coatings must meet the requirements of 
color and gloss as established by GM Appearance 
Engineering. 
1.3.3 Typical Applications. Typical applications 
include the following: sealing profiles in the body 
area, e.g., rocker seals, cutline seals. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ISO 37 
ISO 3865 
ISO 48 
ISO 7500-1 
ISO 188 
ISO 9513 
ISO 868 
ISO 23529 
ISO 1431-1 
 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
GM9842P 
GMW14685 
GMW3001 
GMW14711 
GMW3059 
GMW14712 
GMW14162 
GMW14757 
GMW14170 
GMW15379 
GMW14294 
GMW15382 
GMW14650 
GMW15564 
3 Test Preparation and Evaluation 
3.1 Resources. 
3.1.1 Calibration. The test facilities and equipment 
shall be in good working order and shall have a 
valid calibration label. 
3.1.2 Alternatives. Alternative test facilities and 
equipment may also be used. However, all 
measuring 
variables 
as 
specified 
in 
this 
specification shall be determined correctly with 
respect to its physical definition. 
3.1.3 Facilities. Facilities shall conform to the 
relevant Test Procedures. 
3.1.4 Equipment. Equipment shall conform to the 
relevant Test Procedures and to the test sketches 
on the part drawings. 
3.1.4.1 Test Machine. The test machine shall fulfill 
the following requirements: The force-measuring 
device of the test machine shall correspond to 
ISO 7500-1 Class 1; the deflection measuring 
device shall correspond to ISO 9513 Class 0.2. 
The test machine shall be such that the required 
test velocity can be maintained. 
3.1.5 Test Vehicle/Test Piece/Test Samples. 
Unless otherwise specified, the shape, size and 
number of test pieces shall be in accordance with 
the relevant Test Procedure. 
3.1.5.1 The number of test pieces required for 
material and component approval is defined in 
Appendix A, Table A1. 
For Design and Product Validation, test pieces 
shall be cut from at least three finished parts and 
for Routine Quality Control from at least one 
finished part.  
If straight test pieces cannot be obtained from the 
finished parts in appropriate length, straight 


GMW14169  
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 8 
August 2008 
 
samples from the same manufacturing batch shall 
be delivered unsolicited. 
3.1.6 Test Time. Not applicable.  
3.1.7 Test Required Information. Not applicable.  
3.1.8 Personnel/Skills. Not applicable.  
3.2 Preparation. Not applicable. 
3.3 Conditions. 
3.3.1 Environmental Conditions. The minimum 
time 
between 
vulcanization 
and 
testing 
of 
elastomers shall be 72 h. The test pieces shall be 
maintained at a temperature of 23 ± 5°C for at 
least 8 h prior to test and shall be free from strain 
during this period. 
3.3.2 Test Conditions. Not applicable. 
3.4 Instructions. Not applicable. 
3.5 Data. Not applicable. 
3.6 Safety. This standard may involve hazardous 
materials, 
operations, 
and 
equipment. 
This 
standard does not propose to address all the 
safety problems associated with its use. It is the 
responsibility of the user of this standard to 
establish appropriate safety and health practices 
and determine the applicability of regulatory 
limitations prior to use. 
3.7 Documentation. Samples of components or 
material released to this standard shall be tested 
for conformity with the requirements of this 
standard and approved by the responsible GM 
Department prior to the start of delivery of 
production level components or materials. 
Any change to the component or material, e.g., 
design, function, properties, manufacturing process 
and/or location of manufacture requires a new 
release of the product. It is the sole responsibility 
of the supplier to provide the customer, unsolicited, 
with documentation of any change or modification 
to the product/process, and to apply for a new 
release. 
If not otherwise agreed to, the entire verification 
test shall be repeated and documented by the 
supplier prior to start of delivery of the modified or 
changed product. In some cases a shorter test can 
be agreed to between the responsible GM 
Department and the supplier. 
3.7.1 Test Results. With reference to this standard 
the test results shall be presented in a test report. 
3.7.2 Deviations from this Standard. Deviations 
from the requirements of this standard shall have 
been agreed upon. Such requirements shall be 
specified on component drawings, test certificates, 
reports, etc. 
3.8 Dimensions and Tolerances. Dimensions and 
tolerances shall be specified on the engineering 
part drawing or in the math data file. 
3.9 
Installation 
Properties. 
Handling 
and 
requirements see relevant part drawing or Product 
Assembly Document (PAD). 
4 Requirements and Procedure 
4.1 Appearance. Surfaces shall be smooth and 
free from voids, bubbles, and hard spots. The parts 
shall be free of mold release, bloom, or any other 
defects 
which 
may 
be 
deleterious 
to 
the 
appearance or sealing action. 
4.1.1 
Appearance 
Attributes. 
Appearance 
attributes shall be as specified by GM Styling. 
4.1.2 Blemish Requirements. All weatherstrips 
shall meet the engineering drawing or math data 
file for the Blemish requirements. 
4.1.3 Carriers. Metal carriers/reinforcements must 
be specified on the drawing and in the math data 
file. Carriers must not be visible (i.e., must be 
coated or over molded). Molded joint offsets in 
visible areas and on seal surfaces must be no 
greater than 0.25 mm. 
4.2 Performance Requirements (see Table 1 
and Table 2). If a seal consists of several sections, 
the specified tests shall be conducted on each 
section. Unless otherwise stated, the tests and 
evaluations shall be performed at the temperature 
of 23 ± 5°C. 
4.2.1 Prior to submission of finished parts, the 
supplier shall submit the required material test data 
for approval on sheet stock tested to Table 1 with 
the required number of samples per Appendix A, 
Table A1. Samples are to be taken from finished 
parts for all tests other than material approval and 
release. 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14169 
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
August 2008  
Page 3 of 8
 
Table 1: Material Requirements for Sheet Stock and Finished Components 
Property 
Test Procedure 
Unit 
Value 
4.2.1.1 Hardness 
EPDM 
ISO 48 Method M  
IRHD 
See part drawing 
TPV and PVC 
ISO 868, 15 s delay 
Shore A 
See part drawing 
4.2.1.2 Elongation at Break 
All Types  
ISO 37, Type 2 or 4 dumbbell, 200 ±  20 mm/minute 
% 
200 minimum 
4.2.1.3 Tensile Strength 
All Types  
ISO 37, Type 2 or 4 dumbbell, 200 ±  20 mm/minute 
MPa 
6 minimum 
4.2.1.4 Age Resistance (Heat Aging) 
All Types 
ISO 188 Method B, 168 (- 2) h at 100 ± 3°C 
Change of hardness  
 
IRHD / Shore A 
 
+10 maximum 
4.2.1.5 Ozone Resistance 
All Types 
ISO 1431-1, 100 pphm, straight sample, 20 % strain, 
40 ± 2°C, 72 (-2)°h 
Test piece: length 100 ± 1 mm , width 4 ± 1 mm, thickness 
1-2 mm.  
Visual Examination, 2X magnification 
 
 
 
 
 
No cracks 
4.2.1.6 Paint Staining 
All elastomers in contact 
with painted substrate 
ISO 3865, Method A, using production representative 
painted panels. Basecoat shall be white.  
To develop latent stain, the panels shall be exposed to UV 
following the heat exposure. 
Either: UV exposure 4 ± .5 h at 13 ± 2 W/m
2 
Or: GMW14162 / B / 4 MJ/m² minimum. 
For profiles with permanent contact to the body 
For profiles when contact area is visible 
 
 
 
 
No migration stain 
permissible 
 
contact stain permissible. 
No staining permissible 
4.2.1.7 Cold Flexibility 
All Types 
ISO 23529, -40 ± 3°C; 22 (+2) h,  
Test piece: length 100 ± 1 mm , width 4 ± 1 mm, thickness 
1-2 mm. Bend 180º around radius of 1 mm. 
Visual Examination 
 
 
 
 
No cracks 
4.2.1.8 Volume Resistivity 
All dense elastomeric 
parts in contact to 
painted sheet metal in 
the outer body area. 
GMW14711 
Ω cm 
10
6 minimum 


GMW14169  
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 4 of 8 
August 2008 
 
Table 2: Component Requirements 
Property 
Test Procedure 
Unit 
Value 
4.2.2.1 Compression Load Deflection 
All Types 
GMW14685-2B2 
CLD is determined at both 23 ± 5°C and at –30 ± 2°C 
 
Curves - see part drawing 
or  
math data file 
4.2.2.2 Long Term Load Loss Set 
All Types 
GMW15564  
Change in LLS after 360 (-2) h at 80 ± 3°C  
LLS after 360 (-2 h) at 80 ± 3°C 
 
% 
N/100 mm 
 
43 maximum 
2.1 minimum 
4.2.2.3 Age Resistance  
All Types 
ISO 188 Method B, 72 (-2 h)  at 70 ± 3°C 
Weatherstrip compressed to nominal value 
Compression Load Deflection at 23 ± 5°C 
 
 
see part drawing or  
math data file 
4.2.2.4 Resistance to Adhesion to Glass, Paint, or other Mating Materials 
 
GMW14757, Method A 
dry and wet (tap water) conditions 
 
N 
 
4 maximum 
no transfer of rubber or 
coating to the glass, 
painted panel, or other 
mating substrate material 
4.2.2.5 Adhesion of Interior Walls 
 
GMW14757 Method B 
 
No sticking 
4.2.2.6 Tear-off Force between Carrier and Seal (Separation of Bulb from the Carrier)  
All Types 
Test piece: Section of 50 ± 1 mm length. Insert rod 
through bulb. For profiles with multiple bulbs, the rod shall 
be inserted into the bulb nearest the carrier. The rod must 
fill 70 to 90% of the bulb cavity, unless otherwise 
specified, and must not distort the bulb shape. Clamp 
carrier securely. Pull rod at a speed of 50 ± 5 mm/min, 
perpendicular to the carrier. 
 
 
 
 
N 
 
 
 
 
150 maximum  
or bulb tear (cohesive 
failure) 
4.2.2.7 Insertion/Extraction Note 1 
Flange mounted designs 
GMW14712 
Unless otherwise specified: 
Insertion Force open carrier, blade - 5 mm:   
Extraction Force open carrier, blade - 2 mm 
Extraction Force closed carrier, blade - 2 mm 
 
 
 
N  
N 
N 
 
 
 
20 maximum 
15 minimum 
65 minimum 
 
4.2.2.8 Squeak and Itch Testing 
All Types 
GM9842P 
Sones 
3.0 maximum 
4.2.2.9 Resistance to Protective Wax Remover 
All profiles used in outer 
body area 
GMW14294 
 
The elastomer profile 
shall show no waviness. 
4.2.2.10 Freezing Characteristics of Weatherstrips 
 
GMW15379 Method A   
N 
15 maximum 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14169 
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
August 2008  
Page 5 of 8
 
 
Property 
Test Procedure 
Unit 
Value 
4.2.2.11 Weatherometer Note 2
All parts with direct or 
indirect exposure to 
sunlight 
GMW14650, Weather-Ometer Resistance Class 3 
Change of surface 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Color change ΔE 
 
Color change ΔB (Show surface/visible materials only) 
Visual color change that is considered unacceptable shall 
override the ΔE measurement.  
 
Examination of surface under 50X magnification 
 
 
no tackiness or 
embrittlement,  
no change in hardness, 
no blooming, blistering or 
other factors that may 
affect function or 
appearance. 
3.0 maximum 
 
1.0 maximum 
Parts must not exhibit 
objectionable color 
change. 
no cracking, pores or 
other surface damage 
4.2.2.12 Splice Strength (Tensile Strength) for Joints 
All profiles with joints 
GMW15382 Method A 
separation force 
 
N 
 
100 minimum 
or cohesive failure of 
substrate 
4.2.2.13 Temperature Stability for Joints 
All profiles with joints 
GMW15382 Method B. 
 
No separation of the joint 
4.2.2.14 Bend Test for Joints 
All profiles with joints 
GMW15382 Method C 
 
No cracking  
or splitting of the joint 
4.2.2.15 Linear Shrinkage Note 3
All Types 
Precondition for 6 days minimum at 22 ± 3°C and 50 ± 5% 
RH. Cut a 300 ± 5 mm length sample from the product. 
Measure the overall length accurately with vernier 
calipers. Place the test sample in an oven to ISO 188 
Method B at 80 ± 3 C for 168 (- 2) h. Remove sample and 
allow it to set for 24 h minimum at RT. Measure the length 
at the same location.  
Calculate the length dimensional change according to the 
following formula. 
Length change (%) = ((L1 – L0) / L0) x 100% 
L0 = Length before heat aging 
L1 = Length after heat aging 
Length change (unless otherwise specified) 
Change in appearance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
±1 maximum 
no significant surface 
changes, particularly 
changes in color, gloss, 
or other changes 
detrimental to 
serviceability 
4.2.2.16 Coatings 
All coatings 
GMW14170 
Coating thickness must be specified on the part drawing 
or in the math data file 
 
 
Note 1: For parts attached by means other than flange mounting, details of the insertion/extraction testing and acceptable values shall be 
detailed on the engineering drawing or match data file. 
Note 2: Other than class 3 requirements must be specified on drawing or math data file. 
Note 3: The exact percentage of linear shrinkage is part specific and must be considered when specifying tolerances.  


GMW14169  
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 6 of 8 
August 2008 
 
5 Provisions for Shipping 
5.1 Approved Sources. Engineering qualifications 
of an approved source is required for this standard. 
Only sources listed in the GM Materials File (e.g., 
MATSPC) under this standard number have been 
qualified 
by 
engineering 
as 
meeting 
the 
requirements of this specification. 
5.2 Other Additional Requirements. 
5.2.1 All submissions for approval shall include test 
reports detailing performance to this standard, as 
well as a TGA curve and FT-IR Spectrum for each 
material 
used. 
The 
FT-IR 
spectra 
and 
thermograms submitted for initial approval shall be 
considered the reference standard. All samples 
shall produce FT-IR spectra and thermograms that 
correspond to the reference standards when tested 
under the same conditions. 
5.2.2 See relevant component drawings for 
additional requirements. 
6 Notes 
6.1 Glossary. Not applicable. 
6.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. 
CLD 
 
Compression Load Deflection  
EPDM  
Ethylene Propylene Diene Monomer 
FT-IR 
Fourier 
Transform 
Infrared 
Spectroscopy 
IRHD 
 
International Rubber Hardness Degree  
LLS 
 
Load Loss Set 
PAD 
 
Product Assembly Document 
RH  
 
Relative Humidity 
RT  
 
Room Temperature  
TGA 
 
Thermogravimetric Analysis 
TPE 
 
Thermoplastic Elastomer  
TPV 
 
Thermoplastic Vulcanizate 
PVC 
 
Poly Vinyl Chloride 
7 Additional Paragraphs 
7.1 All parts or systems supplied to this standard 
must comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. 
7.2 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules 
and Regulations for Materials Specifications. 
8 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, etc., as follows: 
GMW14169 
9 Release and Revisions 
9.1 Release. This standard originated in June 
2005. It was first approved by the Global 
Elastomers Team in August 2005. It was first 
published in August 2005 
It supersedes all regional material specifications for 
Expanded Elastomeric Body Seals for use on 
Global Engineered materials including but not 
limited to GME 01008, HN1924, and HN2228. 
9.2 Revisions. 
Rev 
Approval 
Date 
Description (Organization) 
A 
AUG 2008 
Complete revision, replacing 
local 
test 
standards 
with 
respective GMW standards. 
(Global Elastomers Team)  


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14169 
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
August 2008  
Page 7 of 8
 
Appendix A 
Table A1: Number of Test Pieces Required 
Material and Performance 
Requirements 
Material 
Release 
Testing 
(sheet stock) 
Design  
Validation 
Testing 
Product 
Validation 
Testing 
Audit / Inspection 
Testing 
(Routine 
Quality 
Control) 
Hardness 
3 
3 
3 
2 
Elongation at Break 
3 
3 
3 
2 
Tensile Strength 
3 
3 
3 
2 
Age Resistance (Heat Aging) 
3 
3 
3 
2 
Ozone Resistance 
3 
3 
----- 
----- 
Paint Staining 
3 
3 
----- 
----- 
Cold Flexibility 
3 
3 
----- 
----- 
Volume Resistivity 
3 
5 
5 
5 
Bloom 
3 
----- 
3 
----- 
Compression Load Deflection 
 
5 
3 
2 (only RT) 
Long Term Load Loss Set 
 
5 
3 
----- 
Age Resistance 
 
----- 
3 
to be reported 
2 
conform to PPAP 
Resistance to Adhesion to 
Glass, Paint, or other Mating 
Materials 
 
3 
----- 
----- 
Adhesion of Interior Walls 
 
3 
3 
----- 
Tear-off 
Force 
between  
Carrier and Seal 
 
5 
----- 
----- 
Insertion/Extraction 
 
5 
3 
2 
Squeak and Itch Testing 
 
3 
----- 
----- 
Resistance to Protective Wax 
Remover 
 
3 
3 
----- 
Freezing Characteristics  
of Weatherstrips 
 
3 
----- 
----- 


GMW14169  
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 8 of 8 
August 2008 
 
Weatherometer 
3 
3 
3 
----- 
Splice Strength for Joints 
 
3 
3 
2 
Temperature 
Stability 
for 
Joints 
 
3 
3 
----- 
Bend Test for Joints 
 
3 
3 
2 
Linear Shrinkage 
 
3 
----- 
----- 
Coatings 
 
See GMW14170 
See GMW14170 
See GMW14170 
 
 
