# GMW 14168_2008.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Material Specification 
Elastomers 
GMW14168 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elastomeric Seals for Glass Sealing - Flocked or Coated 
 
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
July 2008 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 10
 
1 Introduction 
Note: Nothing in this standard supersedes 
applicable laws and regulations. 
Note: In the event of conflict between the English 
and domestic language, the English language shall 
take precedence. 
1.1 
Scope. 
This 
specification 
covers 
the 
requirements for elastomeric sealing profiles, 
mainly used in the area with movable glass panes. 
These seals can be flocked or coated. 
1.2 Mission/Theme. Not applicable. 
1.3 Classification. 
1.3.1 Material Description. The sealing portion of 
the weatherstrips shall be made from ethylene 
propylene 
diene 
monomer 
(EPDM), 
or 
thermoplastic elastomer (TPE). The specifications 
for the carrier shall be specified on the engineering 
part drawing and in the math data file. 
Weatherstrip 
assemblies 
shall 
consist 
of 
continuous extruded sections or sections joined 
together. These sections shall be joined by either 
transfer or injection molded joints. Joint offsets in 
visible and sealed areas must be no greater than 
0.25 mm. 
1.3.2 Coatings. When applied, coatings shall be 
non-abrasive and uniform in color, finish, and 
texture. Coatings must meet the requirements of 
color and gloss as established by GM Appearance 
Engineering. 
1.3.3 Typical Applications. Typical applications 
include the following: sealing profiles in areas with 
moveable glass, such as door glass run channels 
and belt strips. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ISO 37 
ISO 3865  
ISO 48 
ISO 7500-1  
ISO 188 
ISO 9513  
ISO 868 
ISO 23529  
ISO 1431-1 
ISO 121031  
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
9982223 
GMW14650 
GM9842P 
GMW14685 
GM9908P 
GMW14711 
GME 60248 
GMW14712 
GMN3943 
GMW15379 
GMN6814 
GMW15381 
GMW3001 
GMW15382 
GMW3059 
GMW15564 
GMW14162 
GMW15692 
GMW14170 
GMW15693 
GMW14294 
L 000 0555 
2.3 Additional References. 
Best Practice 106085 
Best Practice 107089 
3 Test Preparation and Evaluation 
3.1 Resources. 
3.1.1 Calibration. The test facilities and equipment 
shall be in good working order and shall have a 
valid calibration label. 
3.1.2 Alternatives. Alternative test facilities and 
equipment may also be used. However, all 
measuring 
variables 
as 
specified 
in 
this 
specification shall be determined correctly with 
respect to its physical definition. 
3.1.3 Facilities. Facilities shall conform to the 
relevant test procedures. 
3.1.4 Equipment. Equipment shall conform to the 
relevant test procedures and to the test sketches 
on the part drawings. 
3.1.4.1 Test Machine. The test machine shall fulfill 
the following requirements. The force-measuring 
device of the test machine shall correspond to 
ISO 7500-1 Class 1; the deflection measuring 
device shall correspond to ISO 9513 Class 0.2. 
The test machine shall be such that the required 
test velocity can be maintained. 
3.1.5 Test Vehicle/Test Piece/Test Samples. 
Unless otherwise specified, the shape, size and 
number of test pieces shall be in accordance with 
the relevant test procedure. 


GMW14168  
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 10 
July 2008
 
3.1.5.1 The number of test pieces required for 
material and component approval is defined in 
Appendix A Table A1. 
For Design and Product Validation, test pieces 
shall be cut from at least three finished parts, and 
for Routine Quality Control from at least one 
finished part. 
If straight test pieces cannot be obtained from the 
finished parts in appropriate length, straight 
samples from the same manufacturing batch shall 
be delivered unsolicited. 
3.1.6 Test Time. Not applicable. 
3.1.7 Test Required Information. Not applicable. 
3.1.8 Personnel/Skills. Not applicable. 
3.2 Preparation. Not applicable. 
3.3 Conditions. 
3.3.1 Environmental Conditions. The minimum 
time 
between 
vulcanization 
and 
testing 
of 
elastomers shall be 72 h. The test pieces shall be 
maintained at a temperature of 23 ± 5°C for at 
least 8 h prior to test and shall be free from strain 
during this period. 
3.3.2 Test Conditions. Not applicable. 
3.4 Instructions. Not applicable. 
3.5 Data. Not applicable. 
3.6 Safety. This standard may involve hazardous 
materials, 
operations, 
and 
equipment. 
This 
standard does not propose to address all the 
safety problems associated with its use. It is the 
responsibility of the user of this standard to 
establish appropriate safety and health practices 
and determine the applicability of regulatory 
limitations prior to use. 
3.7 Documentation. Samples of components or 
material released to this standard shall be tested 
for conformity with the requirements of this 
standard and approved by the responsible GM 
Department prior to the start of delivery of 
production level components or materials. 
Any change to the component or material, e.g., 
design, function, properties, manufacturing process 
and/or location of manufacture requires a new 
release of the product. It is the sole responsibility 
of the supplier to provide the customer, unsolicited, 
with documentation of any change or modification 
to the product/process and to apply for a new 
release. 
If not otherwise agreed to, the entire verification 
test shall be repeated and documented by the 
supplier prior to start of delivery of the modified or 
changed product. In some cases, a shorter test 
can be agreed to between the responsible GM 
Department and the supplier. 
3.7.1 Test Results. With reference to this 
standard, the test results shall be presented in a 
test report. 
3.7.2 Deviations From This Standard. Deviations 
from the requirements of this standard shall have 
been agreed upon. Such requirements shall be 
specified on component drawings, test certificates, 
reports, etc. 
3.8 Dimensions and Tolerances. Dimensions and 
tolerances shall be specified on the engineering 
part drawing or in the math data file. 
3.9 Installation Properties. For handling and 
requirements, see relevant part drawing or product 
assembly document (PAD). 
4 Requirements and Procedure 
4.1 Appearance. Surfaces shall be free from 
voids, bubbles, tears, waves, pushes, and puckers 
which may impair the performance or appearance. 
The parts shall be free of mold release, bloom, or 
any other defects which may be deleterious to the 
appearance or sealing function. Coatings and flock 
shall be non-abrasive and uniform in color and 
finish over the specified area. 
4.1.1 
Appearance 
Attributes. 
Appearance 
attributes shall be as specified by GM Styling. 
4.1.2 Blemish Requirements. All weatherstrips 
shall meet the engineering drawing and math data 
file for the blemish requirements. For additional 
information on blemish requirements, see Best 
Practice 106085. 
4.1.3 Carriers. Metal carriers/reinforcements must 
be specified on the drawing and in the math data 
file. Carriers must not be visible (i.e., must be 
coated or over-molded). Molded joint offsets in 
visible areas and on seal surfaces must be no 
> 0.25 mm. 
4.2 
Performance 
Requirements. 
Tables 
1 
Thru 4. If a seal consists of several sections, the 
specified tests shall be conducted on each section. 
Unless otherwise stated, the tests and evaluations 
shall be performed at the temperature of 23 ± 5°C. 
4.2.1 Prior to submission of finished parts, the 
supplier shall submit the required material test data 
for approval on sheet stock tested to Table 1 with 
the required number of samples per Appendix A 
Table A1. Samples are to be taken from finished 
parts for all tests other than material approval and 
release. 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14168 
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
July 2008 
Page 3 of 10
 
Table 1: Material Requirements for Sheet Stock and Finished Components 
Property 
Test Procedure  
Unit 
Value 
4.2.1.1 Hardness  
EPDM 
ISO 48 Method M  
IRHD 
See part drawing 
TPE  
ISO 868, 15 s delay 
Shore A 
See part drawing 
4.2.1.2 Elongation at Break 
All Types  
ISO 37, Type 2 or 4 dumbbell, 200 ± 20 mm/minute 
% 
200 minimum 
4.2.1.3 Tensile Strength 
All Types  
ISO 37, Type 2 or 4 dumbbell, 200 ± 20 mm/minute 
MPa 
6 minimum 
4.2.1.4 Age Resistance (Heat Aging) 
All Types 
ISO 188 Method B, 168 – 2 h at 100 ± 3°C 
Change of hardness  
 
IRHD / Shore A 
 
+10 maximum 
4.2.1.5 Ozone Resistance 
All Types 
ISO 1431-1, 100 pphm, straight sample 20% strain, 
40 ± 2°C, 72 -2 h 
Test piece: length 100 ± 1 mm , width 4 ± 1 mm, thickness 
1-2 mm  
Visual Examination, 2X magnification 
 
 
 
 
 
No cracks 
4.2.1.6 Paint Staining 
All Types 
ISO 3865, Method A, using production representative 
painted panels. Basecoat shall be white.  
To develop latent stain, the panels shall be exposed to UV 
following the heat exposure. 
Either: UV exposure 4 ± .5 h at 13 ± 2 W/m
2 
Or: GMW14162 / B / 4 MJ/m² minimum. 
For profiles with permanent contact to the body 
For profiles when contact area is visible  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No migration stain 
permissible 
 
Contact stain permissible 
No staining permissible 
4.2.1.7 Cold Flexibility 
All Types 
ISO 23529, -40 ± 3°C; 22 +2 h,  
Test piece: length 100 ± 1 mm , width 4 ± 1 mm, thickness 
1-2 mm. Bend 180 degrees around radius of 1 mm. 
Visual Examination 
 
 
 
No cracks 
No loss of adhesion of 
flock 
 
4.2.1.8 Volume Resistivity 
All dense elastomeric 
parts in contact to painted 
sheet metal in the outer 
body area.  
GMW14711 
Ω cm  
10
6 minimum 


GMW14168  
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 4 of 10 
July 2008
 
Table 2: Component Requirements  
Property 
Test Procedure  
Unit 
Value 
4.2.2.1 Compression Load Deflection Note 1
All Types 
GMW14685-2B2 
CLD is determined at 23 ± 2°C 
 
See part drawing or  
math data file 
4.2.2.2 Long Term Load Loss Set 
All Types 
GMW15564  
Change in LLS after 360 (-2) h at 80 ± 2°C  
for glass run outer lips 
for glass run inner lips  
LLS after 360 (-2) h at                 80 ± 2°C 
 
 
% 
% 
N/100 mm 
 
40 maximum 
60 maximum 
2.1 minimum 
4.2.2.3 Permanent Set 
All Glass Run Channels 
and belt strips 
Test piece supported and deflected in production 
representative manner. Test assembly stored for 72 0/-2 h 
at +100 ± 3°C, removed from the heat source, constraint 
removed and allowed to cool for 30 ± 1 minute.  
Glass Run Channels – Maximum gap 
 
 
 
 
Belt Strips – Minimum Recovery  
 
 
 
 
mm 
 
 
 
 
0.5 less than the test pane 
thickness  
(i.e., for 4 mm glass 
thickness, maximum gap 
allowable is 3.5 mm) 
See part drawing or math 
data file 
4.2.2.4 Resistance to Protective Wax Remover 
All profiles used in outer 
body area 
GMW14294 
 
The elastomer profile shall 
show no waviness. 
4.2.2.5 Sliding Resistance 
All Types 
GM9908P 
Conditions of test see Table B2, Appendix B  
Sliding Resistance 
 
 
N / 100 mm 
 
 
3.5 maximum 
4.2.2.6 Squeak and Itch Testing 
All Types 
GM9842P  
Sones 
3.0 maximum 
4.2.2.7 Heated Backlight Element Compatibility Note 2
Seals on moveable 
(dropping) rear windows 
GMW15381  
 
 
No reaction with the silver 
frit will be allowed 
4.2.2.8Linear Shrinkage Note 3
All Types 
Precondition for 6 days minimum at 22 ± 3°C and 50 ± 5% 
RH. Cut a 300 ± 5 mm length sample from the product. 
Measure the overall length accurately with vernier calipers. 
Place the test sample in an oven to ISO 188 Method B at 80 
± 3 °C for 168 - 2 h. Remove sample and allow it to set for 
24 h minimum at RT. Measure the length at the same 
location.  
Calculate the length dimensional change according to the 
following formula. 
Length change (%) = ((L1 – L0) / L0) x 100% 
L0 = Length before heat aging 
L1 = Length after heat aging 
Length change (unless otherwise specified) 
Change in appearance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
±1 maximum 
no significant surface 
changes, particularly 
changes in color, gloss, or 
other changes detrimental 
to serviceability 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14168 
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
July 2008 
Page 5 of 10
 
4.2.2.9 Weatherometer Note 4
All parts with direct or 
indirect exposure to 
sunlight. 
GMW14650, Weather-Ometer Resistance Class 3 
Change of surface 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Color change ΔE 
 
Color change ΔB (Show surface/visible materials only) 
 
Visual color change that is considered unacceptable shall 
override the ΔE measurement  
 
 
Examination of surface under 50X magnification 
 
 
No tackiness or 
embrittlement,  
no change in hardness, 
no blooming, blistering or 
other factors that may 
affect function or 
appearance. 
 
3.0 maximum  
 
1.0 maximum 
 
Parts must not exhibit 
objectionable color 
change. 
 
No cracking, pores or other 
surface damage  
4.2.2.10 Run Channel Insertion Force  
Profiles with U-channel 
design 
GMW15693, Method A 
Run channel insertion force 
 
N 
 
35 maximum  
4.2.2.11 Glass Insertion Force 
Profiles with U-channel 
design 
GMW15693, Method C 
Glass Insertion Force 
 
N 
 
40 maximum  
4.2.2.12 Insertion-Extraction 
For flange mounted glass 
run channel and belt strip 
designs 
GMW14712 
Unless otherwise specified: 
Insertion Force, blade - 3 mm:  
Extraction Force, blade - 3 mm 
 
 
N  
N 
 
 
35 maximum 
65 minimum 
4.2.2.13 Recovery Force 
Profiles with U-channel 
design 
GMW15693, Method B 
Recovery Force 
 
N 
 
8 minimum 
4.2.2.14 Splice Strength (Tensile Strength) for Joints 
All profiles with joints 
GMW15382  
separation force 
 
 
N 
 
100 minimum  
or cohesive failure of 
substrate 
Note 1: Suppliers shall perform Finite Element Analysis (FEA) assessment of Compression Load Deflection (CLD) according to the FEA 
requirements in Appendix C.  
Note 2: Additional information can be found in Best Practices 107089 “Weatherstrips – Rear Closures – Glass Sealing- Compatibility with 
Healed Backlight Element”. 
Note 3: The exact percentage of linear shrinkage is part specific and must be considered when specifying tolerances. 
Note 4: Other than Class 3, requirements shall be specified on drawing and math data files. 


GMW14168  
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 6 of 10 
July 2008
 
 
Table 3: Coating Requirements 
Property 
Test Procedure  
Unit 
Value 
4.2.3.1 Coatings 
All coatings 
GMW14170  
Coating thickness shall be specified on the part drawing or 
in the math data file 
 
 
4.2.3.2 Resistance to Scratch 
all appearance coated 
weatherstrips 
GMN3943, Method A,  
1.0 ± 0.1 mm tip diameter, 13 N load 
test shall be performed on all exterior show surfaces of 
parts 
 
 
No stress whitening 
4.2.3.3 Abrasion Resistance 
Base of glass run 
channels 
GMW15692 
3 kg load for testing in the base of the channel  
The minimum number of abrasion cycles required without 
exposure of the base material 
 
 
 
cycles 
 
 
 
See Table B1, Appendix B
 
Table 4: Flock Requirements 
Property 
Test Procedure  
Unit 
Value 
4.2.4.1 Material 
All flocked parts 
Material 
Length 
Fineness 
Fiber density 
 
mm  
denier 
fibers/mm
2
Polyester 
0.4 - 0.6  
3 - 6 
175 minimum 
4.2.4.2 Resistance to Scraping 
All flocked parts 
GME 60248-A1  
Test as received, 
after immersion in local transit coating  
(e.g., protective wax L 000 0555 or 9982223),  
after immersion in deionized water 
for glass run channels 
for belt strips 
 
 
 
 
 
cycles 
cycles 
 
 
 
 
 
350 minimum  
150 minimum  
4.2.4.3 Freezing on Behavior 
All flocked parts 
GMW15379 Method B  
 
No freezing on 
 
5 Provisions for Shipping 
5.1 Approved Sources. Engineering qualifications 
of an approved source are required for this 
standard. Only sources listed in the GM Materials 
File (e.g., MATSPC) under this standard number 
have been qualified by engineering as meeting the 
requirements of this standard  
5.2 Other Additional Requirements. 
5.2.1 All submissions for approval shall include test 
reports detailing performance to this standard as 
well as a Thermogravimetric Analysis (TGA) curve 
and Fourier Transform Infrared (FT-IR) Spectrum 
for each material used. The FT-IR spectra and 
thermograms submitted for initial approval shall be 
considered the reference standard. All samples 
shall produce FT-IR spectra and thermograms that 
correspond to the reference standards when tested 
under the same conditions. 
5.2.2 See relevant component drawings for 
additional requirements. 
6 Notes 
6.1 Glossary. Not applicable. 
6.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. 
BTF 
 
Break Test to Failure  
CLD 
 
Compression Load Deflection  


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14168 
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
July 2008 
Page 7 of 10
 
EPDM  
Ethylene Propylene Diene Monomer  
FEA 
 
Finite Element Analysis  
FT-IR 
Fourier 
Transform 
Infrared 
Spectroscopy  
IRHD 
International Rubber Hardness Degree  
LLS 
Load Loss Set  
PAD 
 
Product Assembly Documents 
PDM 
 
Ethylene Propylene Diene Monomer  
RET 
 
Relaxation to Equilibrium Test  
SSCL  
Step Sequence  
TGA 
 
Thermogravimetric Analysis 
TPE 
 
Thermoplastic Elastomer  
UV  
 
Ultraviolet  
VSAS 
Vehicle 
Simulation, 
Analysis 
& 
Simulation  
7 Additional Paragraphs 
7.1 All parts or systems supplied to this standard 
must comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. 
7.2 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules 
and Regulations for Materials Specifications. 
8 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, etc., as follows: 
GMW14168 
9 Release and Revisions 
9.1 Release. This standard originated in June 
2005. It was first approved by the Global Elastomer 
Team in October 2005. It was first published in 
October 2005. 
It supersedes all regional material specifications for 
Elastomeric Seals for Glass Sealing - Flocked or 
Coated for use on Global Engineered materials 
including, but not limited to, GME 01001, 
GMN11017, HN1585, HN2232, and EDS-M-7305. 
9.2 Revisions. 
Rev 
Approval 
Date 
Description (Organization) 
A 
JUL 2008 
Complete revision, replacing 
local 
test 
methods 
with 
respective 
GMW 
specifications. 
(Global 
Elastomers Team)  
 


GMW14168  
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 8 of 10 
July 2008
Appendix A 
Table A1: Number of Test Pieces Required 
Material and Performance 
Requirements
Material Release 
Testing
(sheet stock)
Design 
Validation Testing
Product Validation 
Testing
Audit / Inspection 
Testing
(Routine Quality 
Control)
Hardness 
3
3
3
2
Elongation at Break
3
3
3
2
Tensile Strength
3
3
3
2
Age Resistance (Heat Aging)
3
3
3
2
Ozone Resistance
3
3
-----
-----
Paint Staining
3
3
-----
-----
Cold Flexibility
3
3
-----
-----
Volume Resistivity
3
5
5
5
Bloom
3
-----
3
Compression Load Deflection 
5
3
2 (only 
Long Term Load Loss Set
5
3
-----
Permanent Set (Short Term)
-----
3
to be reported
2
conform to PPAP
Resistance to Protective Wax 
Remover
3
3
-----
Sliding Resistance
5
3
-----
Squeak and Itch Testing
3
-----
-----
Heated Backlight Element 
Compatibility 
3
-----
-----
Linear Shrinkage 
3
-----
-----
Weatherometer
3
3
3
-----
Run Channel Insertion Force 
3
3
2
Glass Insertion Force
3
3
-----
Insertion/Extraction 
5
3
2
Recovery Force
3
3
2
Splice Strength for Joints
3
3
2
Coatings
See GMW14170
See GMW14170
See GMW14170
Resistance to Scratch
3
-----
-----
Abrasion Resistance
3
3
-----
Material Flock
3
3
-----
Resistance to Scraping
3
3
3 (only as received)
Freezing on Behavior
3
-----
-----
RT)
 
 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14168 
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
July 2008 
Page 9 of 10
 
Appendix B 
Table B1: Abrasion Resistance 
Test & Condition 
Remarks 
Cycles  
Minimum 
As Received 
Dry 
Test at room temperature. 
10 000 
 
Wet 
Immerse the test piece in water for 1±.1 h at 20 ±2°C. Apply 
water continuously at the rate of 5 cc/200 cycles during the test. 
10 000 
Heat Aged 
Dry 
Heat age the test piece for 240 ± 1 h in a constant temperature 
bath adjusted to 80 ±2°C. Conduct the dry test after leaving for 
24 ± 1 h at room temperature. 
5000 
 
Wet 
Conduct as received wet test following heat aging. 
5000 
Weatherome
ter 
Dry 
Conduct the as received dry test following Xenon Weatherometer 
exposure per GMW14650 for 225 kJ/m2 and leaving at room 
temperature for 24±1 h. 
5000 
 
Wet 
Conduct as received wet test following weatherometer exposure. 
5000 
Warm Water 
Immersion 
Dry 
Conduct as received dry test after immersing the test piece in 
warm water at 80± 2°C for 96 ±1 h and allowing to stand at room 
temperature for 24±1 h. 
5000 
Muddy 
Water 
Wet 
Conduct as received wet test using muddy water with a ration of 
50 ± 5 g of “Arizona Test Dust“per L of water. Agitate sufficiently 
to keep mixed. (See Note.) 
3000 
Note: Arizona Test meets ISO 121031 A4 (Coarse Grade) and is available from Power Technology Incorporate. 14331 Ewing Avenue, 
Burnsville, MN 55306, Telephone (612) 894-8737. 
 
Table B2: Sliding Resistance 
Test & Condition 
Remarks 
Maximum Force 
(N / 100 mm) 
As Received 
Dry 
Test at room temperature 
3.5 N / 100 mm 
Cold Exposure 
-30 ±2°C Test at -30±2°C 
3.5 N / 100 mm 
 


GMW14168  
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 10 of 10 
July 2008
 
Appendix C 
Finite Element Analysis (FEA) Requirements and Modifications to GMN6814, Standard Test Methods 
for Vulcanized Rubber and TPE for Use in Finite Element Analysis Modeling. 
Personnel. FE Analysts should be knowledgeable in hyper-elastic materials and their mathematical 
formulation vis-à-vis polynomial curve fitting to raw data, and possess related developmental skills. 
Tools. The analysis codes being utilized should be capable of simulating the following: (1) nonlinear material 
behavior using appropriate material models for compressible and incompressible elastomeric compounds, and 
(2) nonlinear geometric effects such as large deformation, buckling and frictional contact. 
Accuracy. A correlation within ± 10% over the design sealing range is required, between analytical results for 
Compression Load Deflection (CLD) values of a digitized part and actual test measurements, when measured 
in accordance with GMW14685-2B2. 
Certification. Supplier FEA and Validation capability assessment will be performed by General Motors Vehicle 
Synthesis & Analysis Simulation (VSAS) Engineering. GMN6814, Standard Test Methods for Vulcanized 
Rubber and TPE (Methods A and B only) will be used for finite element analysis modeling (see Appendix C). 
Model accuracy shall be ±10% for a digitized part and ± 20% for a typical section. Certification obtained in 
earlier programs is adequate so long as no procedural changes have occurred. 
FEA certification must be obtained from General Motors VSAS Engineering prior to a material approval being 
issued. Any product or process changes will require notification of General Motors VSAS Engineering. 
GMN6814 Standard Test Methods for Vulcanized Rubber and TPE shall be used for finite element 
analysis modeling, with the following modifications: 
 
Section 1: Scope 
Test Method C – Equibiaxial Tension – Not applicable. 
Test Method D – Volumetric Compression – Not applicable. 
 
Section 3: Test Equipment. 
3.1.8 Equibiaxial Tension Apparatus – Not applicable. This test method not applicable. 
3.1.9 Volumetric Compression Fixture – Not applicable. This test method not applicable. 
 
Section 4: Test Material 
4.1 Minimum Sampling Requirements – Not applicable. Test specimens shall be cut from extruded ribbons. 
 
Section 5: Test Method. 
Paragraph 5.3, Test Method A, Uniaxial Tension. 
5.3.8.1 Step Sequenced Curved Loops (SSCL). Reduce loops to 20, 30, 50, and 100% only. 
5.3.9 Break Test to Failure (BTF) – Not applicable to methods currently employed by weatherstrip FEA 
analysts. 
5.3.10 Relaxation to Equilibrium Test (RET) - Not applicable to methods currently employed by weatherstrip 
FEA analysts. 
Section 5.4, Test Method B, Planar Tension. 
5.4.8.1 Step Sequenced Curved Loops (SSCL). Reduce loops to 20, 30, 50, and 100% only. 
5.4.9 Relaxation to Equilibrium Test (RET) - Not applicable to methods currently employed by weatherstrip 
FEA analysts. 
 
