# GMW 4707_2002.pdf

Material
Specification
Finish (Coating)
GMW4707
Corrosion Protective Coating Zinc Plating/Organic
1 Scope
This specification covers requirements for a non-oily
corrosion protective coating consisting of zinc plate
and subsequent aluminum rich topcoat.
1.1 Material Description. This coating system must
be free of hexavalent chromium, with no hexavalent
chromium in final product per GMW3059 require-
ments.
The plating shall be called out on the part
drawing per example shown in section 7.
1.2 Cross-Reference of Replaced Specifications.
GMW
GMW4707
Delta Motors
GM do Brasil
GM Holdens
GMNA
GM7113M
ISUZU
ITDC
SAAB
1.3 Symbol. Not applicable.
1.4 Typical Application. The coating is suitable for
internally and externally threaded and nonthreaded
ferrous parts where a high level of corrosion protec-
tion is required. When applied over steel that is to be
coupled with aluminum, the coating provides excep-
tional galvanic protection.
1.5 Remarks.
Use of this coating system on
threaded surface and/or bearing surface of joints
could effect the torque-tension relationship.
It is
recommended that a torque-tension study of the
fastener joint be performed before releasing this
finish on any new application.
2 References
Note: Only the latest approved standards are appli-
cable unless otherwise specified.
2.1 Normative.
ASTM F1470
DIN 946
ISO 9227
SAE/USCAR-1
SAE/USCAR-5
SAE/USCAR-7
SAE/USCAR-11
2.2 GM.
GM4260P
GM4265P
GM9071P
GM9501P
GM9508P
GMW3001
GMW3059
3 Requirements
3.1 Requirements on Delivery.
3.1.1 Chemical Requirements. Not applicable.
3.1.2 Mechanical Requirements. Not applicable.
3.1.3 Physical Requirements.
3.1.3.1 Appearance.
This coating shall have a
uniform gray/green appearance and shall be free
of tears, sags, and excess coating which affects
appearance and performance. The coating shall not
be oily or tacky to the touch.
3.1.3.2 This finish shall not fill driver recess or threads
nor interfere with normal fastener installation proce-
dures. The finish shall withstand normal handling and
storage conditions without damage (chipping, flaking
or other) and must not stain or transfer to adjacent
parts or operators hands.
3.1.3.3 The total coating system as received shall not
adversely affect the drive system: internal recess di-
mensions, hex size, etc. or function of the fastener.
3.1.3.4 Thickness. The zinc plate and passivation
treatment thickness shall be minimum 6 µm unless
otherwise specified. The total coating thickness shall
be (12...20) µm.
3.1.3.4.1 Thickness shall be determined by mi-
croscopic
examination
of
cross
sections
taken
perpendicular to significant surfaces. See GM4260P,
Recommended Practices for Measuring Thickness of
Plated Deposits and Anodic Coatings.
3.1.3.4.2 In case of bolts and screws, plating thick-
ness shall be determined at top of head at midpoint
of largest continuous surface. In case of nuts, deter-
mine at midpoint of flats (wrenching facets).
© Copyright 2002 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards, Records and Documentation
April 2002
Page 1 of 3
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--``````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW4707
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
3.1.3.4.3 The maximum thickness of coating which
may be applied to threads on threaded products is
limited by the basic thread size (tolerance h or H).
After coating, parts must gage with appropriate ba-
sic size GO thread gage. Threads may be produced
undersize/oversize (before coating) to accommodate
the coating thickness, providing the finished product
(after coating) meets all specified mechanical prop-
erties. Where mechanical properties are not speci-
fied, undersizing/oversizing is subject to approval by
pertinent engineer, and all undersize/oversize shall be
within permissible limits as agreed upon.
3.1.3.5 Adhesion. Parts coated to this specification
shall show no evidence of blistering or other appear-
ance changes after exposure to humidity testing per
GM4465P for 96 h minimum. When tape tested per
GM9071P, 10 minutes after removal from humidity
there will be no more than 3.0 mm total peel back (peel
back adding both sides of scribed line) from the lines
scribed in an ’X’ and no other peeling in the area under
the tape. This is not applicable to threaded fasteners.
Note:
This test is applicable for initial approval, ap-
plicator approval and PPAP submission parts.
3.1.3.6 Corrosion Resistance. Significant surfaces
of parts exposed to neutral salt spray per ISO 9227
shall show no base metal corrosion after 480 h ex-
posure.
For this test externally threaded fasteners
shall be power driven into a tapped hole or nut or steel
panel, simulating production usage, removed, then in-
stalled finger tight or with a hand driver with proper
drive bit into acrylic plastic or other inert panel, and
exposed to salt spray at (15...30) from the vertical to
allow wetting. Fasteners shall not drip onto other fas-
teners during the test (SAE/USCAR-1).
3.1.3.6.1 For normal production, processes that are
in statistical process control shall yield parts that are
capable of meeting the salt spray requirments.
3.1.3.6.2 A periodic NSS test of the parts being pro-
cessed on each line running this coating shall be con-
ducted with sample size of 3 pieces minimum per line
per shift.
3.1.3.6.3 Actual processing control checks to be
made and recorded shall be based on chemical
manufacturer’s instruction.
3.1.3.6.4 Significant surfaces for test evaluation in-
clude but are not limited to fastener head, socket re-
cess, sems washer and external nut surface. Sharp
edges are excluded.
3.1.3.6.5 Significant surfaces on parts other than
threaded fasteners shall be all surfaces excluding
sharp edges.
3.1.3.7 Gasoline Resistance. For initial approval of
new materials, coated parts shall be soaked for (200
± 2) s in gasoline as described in GM9501P. After
removal of the parts, they shall be allowed to air dry
before visual examination. There shall be no color
change, wrinkling, or any other change in the coating
appearance.
3.1.3.8 Relief of Hydrogen Embrittlement. All parts
heat treated or highly cold worked to the specified
core hardness greater than HRC 32 or surface hard-
ness HRC 35, shall be processed by the finish ap-
plicator per SAE/USCAR-5 and tested for de-embrit-
tlement per SAE/USCAR-7. The sample size for the
SAE/USCAR-7 test shall be per ASTM F1470.
3.1.3.8.1 When supplementary treatment is specified
for a part that requires baking after plating, the sup-
plementary treatment shall be applied after the baking
operation.
3.1.3.8.2 Hardened parts which have been tempered
at less than +175 C shall be heated to +150 C and
held 8 h or longer if necessary.
3.1.3.9 Flexibility and Chip Resistance Test. The
coating must withstand normal extensions, flexing
and
compressions encountered
by springs
and
spring clips during end product assembly, without
evidence of flaking or loss of adhesion from the base
metal. It shall withstand normal handling and storage
conditions without chipping or flaking.
3.1.3.9.1 Chip Resistance. Panels or parts coated
with the coating, excluding threaded fasteners shall
be exposed per GM9508P(Gravelometer Test). After
exposure the minimum rating shall be 6.
3.1.3.9.2 Torque-Tension Test.
Metric threaded
fasteners M6 and larger shall be subject to torque-ten-
sion monitoring through the use of surrogate M10X1.5
test bolts. Ten surrogate bolts shall be processed with
the production parts. A minimum of 10 bolts per finish
line per shift shall be monitored per SAE/USCAR-11,
except tightening speed shall be (30 ± 3) min-1
(RPM). The six (6) sigma torque range values must
be within the listed range (see Table 1).
The test
results shall be maintained in file to be submitted
when required.
© Copyright 2002 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved
Page 2 of 3
April 2002
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--``````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
GMW4707
Table 1:
Thread Size
Surrogate Bolt
Part Number
Test Nut
Part Number
Test Washer
Part Number
Torque (Nm)
SAE/ USCAR
11
Tension (kN)
M10 x 1.5
11516105
11516090
11502644
48 ± 8
28.3
3.1.3.10 Coefficient of Friction. The coefficient of
friction of threaded fasteners shall be 0.13 ± 0.03 (six
sigma values) when tested per DIN 946 with the fol-
lowing exceptions:
•
Tightening speed shall be (30 ± 3) min-1 (RPM)
•
Test samples (excluding driven fasteners) shall be
thoroughly cleaned with an appropriate fluid/chem-
ical to remove any grease/oil/wax/other contami-
nants.
•
Test clamping force shall be calculated as 75 % of
proof load.
Note: Both, Torque-Tension and Coefficient of Fric-
tion tests are required only for the initial aproval of the
finish material. Suppliers/Applicators can run either
Torque-Tension Test or Coefficient of Friction Test for
quality control.
3.1.4 Additional Requirements. Not applicable.
3.2 Processing Requirements.
Subparagraphs
were not applicable.
3.3 Performance Requirements.
Subparagraphs
were not applicable.
3.4 Requirements on other Stages during Life Cy-
cle.
3.4.1 Chemical Requirements.
3.4.1.1 Recyclability.
Parts with this coating shall
not have any negative effect on recyclability of the
parts.
3.4.1.2 Physiological Safety. The coating material
must not cause any health hazard either to line oper-
ators or customers.
3.4.2 Mechanical Requirements. Not applicable.
3.4.3 Physical Requirements. Not applicable.
3.4.4 Additional Requirements. Not applicable.
4 Manufacturing Process
Not applicable.
5 Rules and Regulations
5.1 All materials supplied to this specification must
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules
and Regulations for Material Specifications.
5.2 All materials supplied to this specification must
comply with the requirements of GMW3059, Re-
stricted and Reportable Substances for Parts.
6 Approved Sources
Suppliers to this specification must be approved by
the Specialist Team/ TDGs. GMNA approved suppli-
ers names are available on the on-line MATSPC Sys-
tem
For other GM locations the responsible engineering
group should be contacted to obtain the approved
sources in the individual countries.
7 Coding System
This material specification shall be referenced in other
documents, drawings, VTS, CTS, etc. as follows:
GMW4707
Where
GMW
=
GM Worldwide
4707
=
Specification Number
8 Release and Revisions
8.1 Release. This material specification was first ap-
proved in August 2001 and was first published in April
2002.
© Copyright 2002 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved
April 2002
Page 3 of 3
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--``````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
