# GMW 14100_2006.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Material Specification 
Finish 
GMW14100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corrosion Protective Coatings Phosphate/Zinc Organic Type 
 
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
December 2006 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 4
 
1 Scope 
This standard covers the basic requirements for a 
corrosion protective coating process consisting of 
zinc phosphate pretreatment, a non-electrolytically 
applied zinc rich coating, and an organic top 
coating. Shot blasting as pretreatment in place zinc 
phosphate is permissible for externally threaded 
parts or parts with no thread. Shot blasting is not a 
preferred method for internally threaded parts and 
shall not be used for nut- washer assemblies. The 
coating may be applied by dipping or spraying. 
Part configuration dictates the application process. 
Internally threaded parts (nut) shall be coated in a 
canting centrifuge or equivalent equipment. 
Note: Any additional approved source of this finish 
shall have canting centrifuge application or 
equivalent equipment. 
1.1 Material Description. The coating system is 
free of hexavalent chromate, with no hexavalent 
chromate 
in 
final 
product 
per 
GMW3059 
requirements. GMW3034 will be used as a referee 
test. This coating process does not generate 
hydrogen; however, pretreatment processes i.e. 
acid pickling could cause hydrogen absorption. 
Non-electrolytically applied zinc rich coating has 
high 
permeability, 
which 
allows 
effusion 
of 
hydrogen during curing that might have been 
absorbed during acid pickling. 
1.2 Symbols. Not applicable. 
1.3 Typical Applications. The coating is suitable 
for bolts, clips, and other ferrous parts where 
above normal levels of corrosion protection and 
freedom from hydrogen embrittlement are required. 
1.3.1 
This 
finish 
is 
not 
recommended 
for 
360 degree Nylon Patch Nuts. 
1.3.2 Internal threaded parts e.g., Nuts < M6 may 
need different treatment. 
1.4 Remarks. Use of this finish on threaded 
surface and/or bearing surface of joints could affect 
the torque-tension relationship. It is recommended 
that a torque-tension study of the fastener joint 
should be preformed before releasing this finish on 
a new application. 
1.4.1 Coefficient of friction/torque tension values in 
this specification are also determined at ambient 
temperatures. New applications for this finish 
should be tested to confirm performance under 
application specific, operating conditions. 
1.4.2 Finishes conforming to the requirements of 
this specification can be used in the application 
range of -50 to 120°C. For applications outside of 
this temperature range consult your local Material 
Engineering (Paint & Corrosion engineering for 
GME) support. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ASTM F1470 
SAE/USCAR-5 
DIN 946 
SAE/USCAR-7 
SAE/USCAR-1 
SAE/USCAR-11 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
9984094 
GMW3059 
GM9071P 
GMW3286 
GMW3001 
GMW14729 
GMW3034 
 
2.3 Additional References. 
Part numbers: 
11502644 
11515490 
11516090 
11516105 
11570102 
3 Requirements 
3.1 Pre-treatment. The use of acidic cleaners is 
not recommended as a pretreatment for all parts 
heat treated or highly cold worked to the specified 
core hardness greater than HRC 32 or surface 
hardness HRC 35. If, due to excessive surface 
scale, acidic cleaners are used as a pretreatment, 
then additional care and documentation is required 
in 
baking 
and 
testing 
for 
hydrogen 
de-
embrittlement (reference section 3.7). Shot blasting 
is not a preferred method for internally threaded 
parts and shall not be used for nut-washer 
assemblies. 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW14100 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 4 
December 2006
 
3.2 Appearance. Coating shall give a uniform 
metallic gray appearance and shall be free from 
tears, sags and excess coating, which affect 
appearance and performance. It shall not be oily or 
tacky to the touch. 
3.3 Thickness. Coating in threads of threaded 
products shall not have an adverse effect on 
normal installation and removal practices. 
3.3.1 The total coating thickness shall be in a 
range of 15 μm ± 5 µm. 
3.3.2 The maximum thickness of coating, which 
may be applied to threads on threaded products, is 
limited by the basic thread size (tolerance h or H). 
After coating, parts must gage with appropriate 
basic size GO thread gage. Threads may be 
produced undersize/oversize (before coating) to 
accommodate the coating thickness, providing the 
finished product (after coating) meets all specified 
mechanical 
properties. 
Where 
mechanical 
properties are not specified, undersizing/oversizing 
is subject to approval by GM engineering, and all 
undersize/oversize shall be within permissible 
limits as agreed upon. 
3.3.3 Nuts must gage an appropriate GO thread 
gage specified on drawings. 
3.4 Corrosion Resistance. Parts coated/plated to 
this specification shall be capable of withstanding 
neutral salt spray (NSS) testing per GMW3286 for 
the minimum of 240 h with no red rust. The 
corrosion testing of the threaded fasteners must 
follow the procedures as outlined in SAE/USCAR-1 
3.4.1 For normal production process, NSS test 
shall be part of applicator’s statistical process 
control to ensure that the parts meet the corrosion 
resistance requirements. 
3.4.2 NSS testing shall be performed on a regular 
basis. The frequency shall be three pieces per line 
per shift. In small batch runs, where the entire 
batch is completed in less than one shift, three 
parts shall be tested. Use actual parts for NSS 
testing unless the use of other parts (surrogate or 
other parts) is agreed to by GM Engineering. 
3.4.3 Significant surfaces for test evaluation of 
fasteners shall be all exposed surfaces of the 
fastener when installed, including but are not 
limited to fastener heads, socket recess, sems 
washers and external surface of nuts. Fastener 
threads and point are excluded unless otherwise 
specified on the drawing. 
3.4.4 Significant surfaces on parts other than 
threaded fasteners shall be all surfaces. Deep 
recesses, such as blind holes and the interior of 
tubes are excluded unless otherwise specified on 
the drawing. 
3.5 Flexibility and Chip Resistance. Coating 
shall 
withstand 
the 
normal 
extension 
and 
compression of springs and the normal flexing 
encountered by spring clips during assembly in the 
end product without evidence of flaking or loss of 
adhesion to base metal. Also, it shall withstand 
normal handling and storage conditions without 
chipping, flaking or other coating damage. 
3.6 Adhesion Characteristics. Parts coated to 
this specification shall show no evidence of 
blistering or other appearance changes, other than 
a whitish blush, after exposure to humidity testing 
per GMW14729 for 96 h, minimum. When tape 
tested per GM9071P, Method B, 10 minutes after 
removal from humidity there shall be minimum 
99.0% of coating retention. In case of threaded 
fasteners, steel test panels shall be processed with 
fasteners for the tape adhesion test. 
3.6.1 This test is applicable for initial approval and 
PPAP submission parts and yearly thereafter. A 
sample size of three shall be used for this test. 
3.7 Hydrogen Embrittlement. All parts heat 
treated or highly cold worked to the specified core 
hardness 
greater 
than 
HRC 32 
or 
surface 
hardness HRC 35, which are processed through 
hydrogen generating process shall be processed 
per 
SAE/USCAR-5, 
and 
tested 
for 
de-
embrittlement per SAE/USCAR-7. The sample size 
for 
the 
SAE/ USCAR-7 
test 
shall 
be 
per 
ASTM F1470. 
3.8 Testing. 
3.8.1 
Thickness 
shall 
be 
determined 
by 
microscopic examinations of cross sections taken 
perpendicular to significant surfaces or by other 
methods agreed upon by the supplier and 
purchaser. 
3.8.2 Neutral salt spray testing shall be conducted 
according to GMW3286. 
3.8.2.1 When this coating is specified for fasteners, 
the parts shall be assembled with properly 
maintained power tools, to a coated steel panel or 
mating part, in a manner simulated to production 
and perpendicular against a flat surface. The panel 
of fasteners shall be exposed to salt spray at 15 to 
30 degrees from the vertical to allow wetting of 
significant surfaces (SAE/USCAR-1). 
3.8.3 
Humidity 
testing 
shall 
be 
conducted 
according to GMW14729 (100% RH at 38°C). 
3.8.4 Tape testing shall be conducted according to 
GM9071P (Method B) on parts large enough to 
receive the specified scribe. 
3.8.5 The presence of the clear topcoat may be 
determined by the sulfamic aci

GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14100
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
December 2006 
Page 3 of 4
 
dropped on the surface. If the topcoat is missing, 
the surface will turn black. 
3.9 Torque-Tension. Metric threaded fasteners 
M6 and larger shall be subject to torque-tension 
testing monitoring through the use of surrogate 
M10 x 1.5 test bolts. Torque-tension shall be 
monitored per SAE/USCAR-11, except tightening 
speed shall be 30 ± 3 RPM. The six (6) sigma 
torque range value must be within the listed range 
(Table 1). Torque- Tension test is required for 
initial approval of finish, applicators, and PPAP 
submissions. The test results shall be maintained 
in a file to be submitted when required. 
3.10 Friction Coefficient. The coefficient of 
friction 
of 
threaded 
fasteners 
shall 
be 
0.135 ± 0.035 (six sigma value) when tested per 
DIN 946 with the following exceptions: 
• Tightening speed shall be 30 ± 3 RPM. 
• Test samples (excluding driven fasteners) shall 
be thoroughly cleaned with an appropriate 
fluid/chemical 
to 
remove 
any 
grease/oil/wax/other contaminants. 
Test clamping force shall be calculated as 75% of 
proof load. 
Note: Torque-Tension Test and Coefficient of 
Friction Test are required for the initial approval of 
the finish material. Suppliers/Applicators can run 
either Torque-Tension Test or Coefficient of 
Friction Test for quality control. 
 
Table 1: Torque Range 
Thread 
Size 
Surrogate 
Bolt Part 
Number 
Test Nut Part 
Number 
Test Washer 
Part Number 
Torque (N·m) 
Tension (kN) 
Coefficient 
of Friction 
M10 x 1.5 
11516105 
11516090 
11502644 
50 ± 10 
28.3 
0.135 ± 0.035 
 
3.11 Bearing Surface Characteristics. Special 
M10 heavy hex test bolts, part number 11570102, 
shall be tested per SAE/USCAR-11 with the 
following requirements: Tightening speed shall be 
30 ± 3 RPM. Test nut shall be 11516090. Tension 
load shall be 24 kN. Test shall be conducted with 
electro coated test washers (11515490 except 
unhardened and coated with 9984094, medium 
build electro coating) and aluminum test washers 
(3.0 mm minimum thick, 10.25 to 10.50 hole size, 
AA6063T52 aluminum). The 6 sigma torque range 
shall lie within 40 to 64 Nm for 10 samples tested 
for both the electro coated and aluminum bearing 
surfaces. These tests are required for the initial 
approval of the finish material. 
4 Manufacturing Process 
Not applicable. 
5 Rules and Regulations 
5.1 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules 
and Regulations for Material Specifications. 
5.2 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. 
6 Approved Sources 
Engineering qualifications of an approved source is 
required for this standard. Only sources listed in 
the GM Materials File (i.e., MATSPC) under this 
specification number have been qualified by 
engineering as meeting the requirements of this 
specification. 
For 
other 
GM 
locations, 
the 
responsible 
engineering group should be contacted to obtain 
the approved source in that individual country. 
7 Notes 
7.1 Glossary. Not applicable. 
7.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. 
HRC 
 
Hardness Rockwell C 
NSS 
 
Neutral Salt Spray 
PPAP  
Production Part Approval Process 
RPM 
 
Revolution per Minute 
8 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, VTS, CTS, etc. as follows: 
GMW14100 
GMW14100 (Black) 
9 Release and Revisions 
9.1 Release. This standard was originated in 
March 2005 and first approved by the GMW Finish 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW14100 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 4 of 4 
December 2006
 
Team in March 2005. It was first published in April 
2005. 
9.2 Revisions. 
Rev 
Date 
Description 
(Organization) 
A 
JAN 2006 
Added 3.1, 3.8, 3.9, Table 
1, revised TT frequency 
requirement, added COF / 
temperature 
caution 
to 
Scope. 
(GMW 
Finish 
Team) 
B 
SEP 2006 
Added 3.11 and revised 
3.4.2 
and 
3.6.1 
(GMW 
Finish Team) 
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
