# GMW 14147_2008.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
General Specification 
Elastomers  
GMW14147 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Requirements for Expanded Elastomeric Body Seals 
 
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
April 2008 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 9 
 
1 Introduction 
Note: Nothing in this standard supersedes 
applicable laws and regulations. 
Note: In the event of conflict between the English 
and domestic language, the English language shall 
take precedence. 
1.1 Scope. This standard covers the requirements 
of expanded elastomeric rubber seals attached to 
a solid carrier used in sealing body openings. 
1.2 Mission/Theme. Not applicable. 
1.3 Classification. 
1.3.1 Material Description. The bulb or sealing 
portion of the weatherstrips shall be made from 
expanded closed-cell ethylene propylene diene 
monomer (EPDM). For attachment purposes, 
weatherstrips require a dense base (carrier). This 
carrier shall be coextruded with the expanded 
cellular bulb. The carrier shall incorporate a metal 
insert if specified on the respective part drawing. 
The specifications for the dense base and the 
metal carrier shall be specified on the engineering 
part drawing or in the math data file. 
Weatherstrip 
assemblies 
shall 
consist 
of 
continuous extruded sections or sections joined 
together. These sections shall be joined by either 
transfer or injection molded corners, or mitered 
corners securely attached with suitable adhesive. 
Joint and corner offsets in visible and sealed areas 
must be no greater than 0.25 mm. 
1.3.2 Coatings. When applied, coatings shall be 
non-abrasive and uniform in color, finish, and 
texture. Coatings must meet the requirements of 
color and gloss as established by GM Appearance 
Engineering. 
1.3.3 Typical Applications. Typical applications 
include the following: sealing profiles in the body 
area, e.g., on doors, tailgates, and trunk lids. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
AATCC 23 
ISO 3865 
ISO 105-B06  
ISO 7500-1 
ISO 105-G02 
ISO 9513 
ISO 188 
ISO 23529 
ISO 1431-1 
 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
GM9842P 
GMW14685 
GM9843P 
GMW14711 
GMW3001 
GMW14712 
GMW3059 
GMW14757 
GMW14125 
GMW15379 
GMW14162 
GMW15381 
GMW14170 
GMW15382 
GMW14294 
GMW15564 
GMW14650 
GMW15681 
3 Test Preparation and Evaluation 
3.1 Resources. 
3.1.1 Calibration. The test facilities and equipment 
shall be in good working order and shall have a 
valid calibration label. 
3.1.2 Alternatives. Alternative test facilities and 
equipment may also be used. However, all 
measuring 
variables 
as 
specified 
in 
this 
specification shall be determined correctly with 
respect to its physical definition. 
3.1.3 Facilities Facilities shall conform to the 
relevant Test Procedures. 
3.1.4 Equipment. Equipment shall conform to the 
relevant Test Procedures and to the test sketches 
on the part drawings. 
3.1.4.1 Test Machine. The test machine shall fulfill 
the following requirements. The force-measuring 
device of the test machine shall correspond to 
ISO 7500-1 Class 1, the deflection measuring 
device shall correspond to ISO 9513 Class 0.2. 
The test machine shall be such that the required 
test velocity can be maintained. 
3.1.5 Test Vehicle/Test Piece. Unless otherwise 
specified, the shape, size and number of test 
pieces shall be in accordance with the relevant 
Test 
Procedure. 
For 
Design 
and 
Product 
Validation, test pieces shall be cut from at least 


GMW14147  
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 9 
April 2008  
 
three finished parts, for Routine Quality Control 
from at least one finished part.  
The number of test pieces required is defined in 
Appendix B, Table B1 
3.2 Preparation. Not applicable. 
3.3 Conditions. 
3.3.1 Environmental Conditions. The minimum 
time 
between 
vulcanization 
and 
testing 
of 
elastomers shall be 72 h. The test pieces shall be 
maintained at a temperature of 23 ± 5°C for at 
least 8 h prior to test and shall be free from strain 
during this period. 
3.4 Instructions. Not applicable. 
3.5 Data. Not applicable. 
3.6 Safety. This standard may involve hazardous 
materials, 
operations, 
and 
equipment. 
This 
standard does not propose to address all the 
safety problems associated with its use. It is the 
responsibility of the user of this standard to 
establish appropriate safety and health practices 
and determine the applicability of regulatory 
limitations prior to use. 
3.7 Documentation. Samples of components or 
material released to this standard shall be tested 
for conformity with the requirements of this 
standard and approved by the responsible GM 
Department prior to the start of delivery of 
production level components or materials. 
Any change to the component or material, e.g., 
design, function, properties, manufacturing process 
and/or location of manufacture requires a new 
release of the product. It is the sole responsibility 
of the supplier to provide the customer, unsolicited, 
with documentation of any change or modification 
to the product/process, and to apply for a new 
release. 
If not otherwise agreed to, the entire verification 
test shall be repeated and documented by the 
supplier prior to start of delivery of the modified or 
changed product. In some cases a shorter test can 
be agreed to between the responsible GM 
department and the supplier. 
3.7.1 Test Results. With reference to this 
specification the test results shall be presented in a 
test report. 
3.7.2 Deviations from this Standard. Deviations 
from the requirements of this standard shall have 
been agreed upon. Such requirements shall be 
specified on component drawings, test certificates, 
reports, etc. 
3.8 Dimensions and Tolerances. Dimensions and 
tolerances shall be specified on the engineering 
part drawing or in the math data file. 
3.9 
Installation 
Properties. 
Handling 
and 
requirements see relevant part drawing or Product 
Assembly Document (PAD). 
4 Requirements and Procedure 
4.1 Appearance. The surface of both the extruded 
and molded sections shall have a natural skin. 
Surfaces shall be smooth and free from voids, 
bubbles, and hard spots. The parts shall be free of 
mold release, bloom, or any other defects which 
may be deleterious to the appearance or sealing 
action. 
4.1.1 
Appearance 
Attributes. 
Appearance 
attributes shall be as specified by GM Styling. 
4.1.2 Blemish Requirements. All weatherstrips 
shall meet the engineering drawing or math data 
file for the Blemish requirements. 
4.1.3 Carriers. Metal carriers/reinforcements must 
be hidden, either by coating or overmolding. 
Molded joint offsets in visible areas and on seal 
surfaces must be no greater than 0.25 mm. 
4.2 Performance Requirements. If a seal consists 
of several sections the specified tests shall be 
conducted on each section. Unless otherwise 
stated, the tests and evaluations shall be 
performed at the temperature of 23 ± 5°C, see 
Appendix A. 
5 Provisions for Shipping 
5.1 Approved Sources. Engineering qualifications 
of an approved source is required for this 
specification. Only sources listed in the GM 
Materials 
File 
(e.g., 
MATSPC) 
under 
this 
specification number have been qualified by 
engineering as meeting the requirements of this 
specification. 
For 
other 
GM 
locations, 
the 
responsible 
engineering group should be contacted to obtain 
the approved source in that individual country. 
5.2 Other Additional Requirements. 
5.2.1 All submissions for approval shall include test 
reports detailing performance to this standard, as 
well as a Thermogravimetric Analysis (TGA) curve 
and Fourier Transform Infra-red Spectroscopy (FT-
IR) Spectrum for each material used. The FT-IR 
spectra and thermograms submitted for initial 
approval shall be considered the reference 
standard. All samples shall produce FT-IR spectra 
and thermograms that correspond to the reference 
standards when tested under the same conditions. 
5.2.2 See relevant component drawings for 
additional requirements. 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14147  
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
April 2008  
Page 3 of 9 
 
6 Notes 
6.1 Glossary. Not applicable. 
6.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. 
EPDM  
ethylene propylene diene monomer 
FT-IR 
Fourier 
Transform 
Infra-red 
Spectroscopy 
PAD 
 
Product Assembly Document 
PPAP  
Production Part Approval Process  
TGA 
 
Thermogravimetric Analysis  
UV  
 
Ultra Violet  
7 Additional Paragraphs 
7.1 All parts or systems supplied to this standard 
must comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. 
7.2 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules 
and Regulations for Materials Specifications. 
8 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, etc., as follows: 
Test to GMW14147 
9 Release and Revisions 
9.1 Release. This standard originated in May 
2005. It was first approved by the Global 
Elastomers Team in August 2005. It was first 
published in August 2005. 
It supersedes all regional material specifications for 
Expanded Elastomeric Body Seals for use on 
Global Engineered materials including but not 
limited to GME 01004, STD 3307, EDS-M-7304, 
and GMN11018. 
9.2 Revisions. 
Rev 
Approval 
Date 
Description (Organization) 
A 
MAR 2008 
Complete revision, replacing 
local 
test 
methods 
with 
respective 
GMW 
specifications 
(Global 
Elastomers Team) 


GMW14147  
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 4 of 9 
April 2008  
 
Appendix A 
 
Table A1: Material and Part Requirements 
Property 
Test Procedure 
Unit 
Value 
Compression Load Deflection  
All Types 
GMW14685-2B2 
Compression Load Deflection is determined at 
both 23  5°C and at –30  2°C. 
 
see part drawing or  
math data file 
Long Term Load Loss Set 
All Types 
GMW15564  
Change in LLS after 360 (-2) h at 80 ± 3°C 
Load Loss Set after 360 -2 h at 80 ± 3°C  
 
% 
N/100 mm 
 
43 maximum 
2.1 minimum 
Age Resistance  
All Types 
ISO 188 Method B, 72 0/-2 h at 70 ± 3°C 
Weatherstrip compressed to nominal value 
Compression Load Deflection at 23  5C 
 
 
see part drawing or  
math data file 
Ozone Resistance 
All Types 
ISO 1431-1, 100 ± 10 pphm, 40 ± 2°C, 72 (-2) h 
bent around a mandrel having an outside 
diameter suitable to impart 20% strain, carrier 
attached 
and 
bulb 
side 
outward 
The two ends of the weatherstrip shall be tied 
where they cross one another with enameled 
copper 
or 
aluminum 
wire 
Visual Examination, 2X magnification 
 
 
 
 
 
No cracks 
Paint Staining 
All Types 
ISO 3865, Method A using production 
representative painted panels. Basecoat shall 
be white.  
To develop latent stain, the panels shall be 
exposed to UV following the heat exposure. 
Either: UV exposure 4 ± .5 h at 13 ± 2 W/m2 
Or: GMW14162/B/4 MJ/m² minimum. 
For profiles with permanent contact to the body 
 
 
For profiles when contact area is visible 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No migration stain 
permissible,  
contact stain 
permissible.  
No staining 
permissible. 
Cold Flexibility 
All Types 
ISO 
23529, 
-40 ± 3°C; 
22 (+2) h, 
The sealing section shall be tested while 
attached to the carrier. It shall be tested with 
the sealing area on the outside of the assembly 
when bent over the mandrel, such that the 
elastomer 
is 
under 
maximum 
stress 
bent 180 degrees around radius of 25 ± 1 mm, 
Visual Examination. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No cracks 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14147  
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
April 2008  
Page 5 of 9 
 
Property 
Test Procedure 
Unit 
Value 
Volume Resistivity 
All 
dense 
elastomeric parts in 
contact to painted 
sheet metal in the 
outer body area. 
GMW14711 
Ω cm 
106 minimum 
Resistance to Adhesion to Glass, Paint, or other Mating Materials 
All Types 
GMW14757, Method A 
dry and wet (tap water) conditions 
 
N 
 
4 maximum 
no transfer of rubber 
or coating to the 
glass, painted panel, 
or other mating 
substrate material 
Adhesion of Interior Walls 
All Types 
GMW14757 Method B 
 
No sticking 
Heated Backlight Element Compatibility Note 1  
For 
weatherstrips 
near or in contact 
with heated backlight 
element 
GMW15381  
 
 
No reaction with the 
silver frit will be 
allowed 
Freezing Characteristics of Weatherstrips 
All Types 
GMW15379 Method A 
N 
15 maximum 
Tear-off Force between Carrier and Seal (Separation of Bulb from the Carrier) 
All Types 
Test piece: Section of 50 ± 1 mm length. Insert 
rod through bulb. For profiles with multiple 
bulbs, the rod shall be inserted into the bulb 
nearest the carrier. The rod must fill 70 to 90% 
of the bulb cavity, unless otherwise specified, 
and must not distort the bulb shape. Clamp 
carrier securely. Pull rod at a speed of 
50 ± 5 mm/minute, perpendicular to the carrier. 
 
 
 
 
N 
 
 
 
 
150 N minimum  
or bulb tear (cohesive 
failure) 
Squeak and Itch Testing 
All Types 
GM9842P 
Sones 
3.0 maximum 
Insertion/Extraction Note 2 
All Types 
GMW14712 
Unless otherwise specified: 
Insertion Force open carrier, blade - 5 mm:  
Extraction Force open carrier, blade - 2 mm 
Extraction Force closed carrier, blade - 2 mm 
 
 
  
N 
N 
N 
 
 
20 maximum 
15 minimum 
65 minimum 
 


GMW14147  
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 6 of 9 
April 2008  
 
Property 
Test Procedure 
Unit 
Value 
Linear Shrinkage Note 3 
All Types 
Precondition for 6 days minimum at 22  3°C 
and 50  5% RH. Cut a 300 ± 5 mm length 
sample from the product. Measure the overall 
length accurately with vernier calipers. Place 
the test sample in an oven to ISO 188 Method 
B at 80  3°C for 168 - 2 h. Remove sample 
and allow it to set for 24 h minimum at RT. 
Measure the length at the same location. 
Calculate 
the 
length 
dimensional 
change 
according 
to 
the 
following 
formula. 
Length change (%) = ((L1 – L0) / L0) x 100% 
L0 
= 
Length 
before 
heat 
aging 
L1 
= 
Length 
after 
heat 
aging 
Length change (unless otherwise specified) 
Change in appearance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
±1 maximum 
no significant surface 
changes, particularly 
changes in color, 
gloss, or other 
changes detrimental 
to serviceability 
Vibration Wear Testing 
For 
decklid 
and 
liftgate weatherstrips 
or 
if 
specified 
on 
drawing / math data 
file 
GM9843P 
cycles 
100 000 minimum  
with no material 
transfer, weatherstrip 
damage or paint 
damage 
Tear Strip (Pull Cord) Testing 
All profiles with Tear 
Strips 
GMW15681 
Method A 45 degree pull test 
Method B Ultimate force 
Method B Elongation at Break 
 
N 
N 
% 
 
13 ± 0.3 
80 minimum 
to be reported 
Resistance to Protective Wax Remover 
All profiles used in 
outer body area 
GMW14294 
 
The elastomer profile 
shall show no 
waviness. 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14147  
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
April 2008  
Page 7 of 9 
 
Property 
Test Procedure 
Unit 
Value 
Weather-Ometer Note 4 
All parts with direct 
or indirect exposure 
to sunlight. 
GMW14650, Weather-Ometer (Xenon Arc) 
Resistance Class 3 
Change of surface 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Color change E 
Visual color change that is considered 
unacceptable shall override the E 
measurement.  
 
Examination of surface under 50X magnification 
 
 
No tackiness or 
embrittlement,  
no change in 
hardness,  
no blooming, 
blistering or other 
factors that may 
affect function or 
appearance. 
3.0 maximum  
Parts must not exhibit 
objectionable color 
change. 
no cracking, pores or 
other surface damage 
Resistance to Scraping 
For 
flock 
covered 
trim lips 
GMW14125-A2-X2 
cycles 
10 minimum 
Colorfastness to Artificial Light 
Required for interior 
trim lips above the 
belt line 
 
ISO 105-B06, exposure condition 5, 
1240.8 kJ/m2 minimum 
or 
GMW14162 / B / 28 MJ/m² minimum 
 
 E ≤ 3.0 
Or 
Rating 4 minimum 
Additionally, no more 
than a noticeable 
change in hue or 
chroma, and no 
objectionable 
tackiness, 
blotchiness, loss of 
grain, wrinkling, or 
other undesirable 
effects 
Colorfastness to Burnt Gas Fumes 
Required for color –
matched interior trim 
lips above the belt 
line 
AATCC 23 or ISO 105-G02, 168 h at 60°C 
 
E = 1.5 maximum 
YI = 2.0 maximum 
Splice Strength (Tensile Strength) for Joints 
All profiles with joints GMW15382 Method A 
separation force 
 
N 
 
100 minimum 
or cohesive failure of 
substrate 
Temperature Stability for Joints 
All profiles with joints GMW15382 Method B 
 
No separation of the 
joint 


GMW14147  
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 8 of 9 
April 2008  
 
Property 
Test Procedure 
Unit 
Value 
Bend Test for Joints 
All profiles with joints GMW15382 Method C 
 
No cracking or 
splitting of the joint 
Coatings 
 
 
 
All coatings 
GMW14170 
Coating thickness must be specified on the part 
drawing or in the math data file 
 
 
Note 1: Additional information can be found in Best Practice #107089 "Weatherstrips - Rear End Closures - Glass Sealing - Compatibility 
with Heated Backlight Element". 
Note 2: For parts attached by means other than flange mounting, details of the insertion / extraction testing and acceptable values shall be 
detailed on the engineering drawing or math data file. 
Note 3: The exact percentage of linear shrinkage is part specific and must be considered when specifying tolerances 
Note 4: Other than class 3 requirements must be specified on shall produce FT-IR spectra and thermograms that correspond to the 
reference standards when tested under the same conditions. 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14147  
 
© Copyright 2008 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
April 2008  
Page 9 of 9 
 
Appendix B  
Table B1: Requirements for Expanded Elastomeric Body Seals 
Material 
and 
Performance 
Requirements 
Design  
Validation Testing 
Product Validation 
Testing 
Audit/Inspection 
Testing 
(Routine Quality 
Control) 
Compression Load Deflection  
5 
3 
2 (only RT) 
Long Term Load Loss Set 
5 
3 
----- 
Age Resistance  
----- 
3 to be reported 
2 conform to PPAP 
Ozone Resistance 
3 
----- 
----- 
Paint Staining 
3 
----- 
----- 
Cold Flexibility 
3 
----- 
----- 
Volume Resistivity 
5 
5 
5 
Resistance to Adhesion to Glass, Paint, 
or other Mating Materials 
3 
----- 
----- 
Adhesion of Interior Walls 
3 
3 
----- 
Heated Backlight Element Compatibility  
3 
----- 
----- 
Freezing Characteristics of Weatherstrips 
3 
----- 
----- 
Tear-off Force between Carrier and Seal 
5 
----- 
----- 
Squeak and Itch Testing 
3 
----- 
----- 
Insertion/Extraction  
5 
3 
2 
Linear Shrinkage 
3 
----- 
----- 
Vibration Wear Testing 
3 
----- 
----- 
Tear Strip (Pull Cord) Testing 
3 
3 
2 
Resistance to Protective Wax Remover 
3 
3 
----- 
Weatherometer 
3 
3 
----- 
Resistance to Scraping 
3 
3 
----- 
Colorfastness to Artificial Light 
3 
3 
----- 
Colorfastness to Burnt Gas Fumes 
3 
3 
 
Splice Strength for Joints 
3 
3 
2 
Temperature Stability for Joints 
3 
3 
----- 
Bend Test for Joints 
3 
3 
2 
Installation Properties 
3 
3 
----- 
Coatings 
See GMW14170 
See GMW14170 
See GMW14170 
 
