# GMW 14668_2009.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Material Specification 
Finish 
GMW14668 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minimum Performance Requirements for Decorative Chromium 
Plated Plastic Parts 
 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
November 2009 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 10 
 
1 Scope 
This specification covers basic requirements for 
copper-nickel-chromium electroplated plastic parts, 
including assemblies. 
1.1 
Material 
Description. 
Platings 
to 
this 
specification are intended for interior (code A) and 
exterior (code B) applications with two levels of 
corrosion protection. For exterior applications, 
discontinuous chromium plate microporous (mp) or 
microcracking (mc), in addition to a multiple layer 
nickel system, shall be used. Interior applications 
do not require the use of discontinuous chromium 
or multiple layer nickel systems. For interior 
applications non-discontinuous chrome (r) is 
permissible. 
Exterior 
plastics 
plated 
to 
this 
specification are further subdivided into application 
types: Type 1 which receives little or no stone 
chipping exposure on a vehicle, and Type 2 which 
is exposed to significant chipping. Type 2 includes 
significant surfaces of plated plastic parts attached 
to forward-facing vehicle areas or to vehicle areas 
subject to self-generated stone chipping (as 
defined by ≥ 15 degree impingement of straight 
line projection from tire). If no type is listed on 
detail drawing, Type 2 is assumed. Type 3 is a 
Very Severe Service specific to wheel clads and 
caps. 
1.1.1 For MATSPC and Approved Paint on Plastics 
Systems (APOPS) Trim transmittal approval, as a 
new supplier of a given finish to GM, all testing 
shall be performed in an accredited laboratory. 
Laboratory accreditations to ISO/IEC 17025 are 
acceptable. If another laboratory is planned to be 
used that is not ISO/IEC 17025 approved, it is the 
responsibility of the supplier submitting the 
technology to receive approval to use the 
laboratory, from the GM Engineer 
who is 
responsible for approving the specific technology, 
before any testing. Using a non accredited lab may 
also require testing in two different labs, whereby 
one lab must be independent. Generally, the 
unaccredited laboratory must be in a facility that 
has a Quality System approval to ISO/TS 16949. 
For Part Production Approval Process (PPAP) 
Testing, tests performed outside of GM are to use 
a lab from an organization that is either third party 
registered to ISO/TS 16949 or has laboratory 
accreditations to ISO/IEC 17025. Include a scope 
of accreditation or a scope of activity from the 
auditor with the test data. 
1.2 Symbols. Not applicable. 
1.3 Typical Applications. This type of finish shall 
be principally used for decorative purpose. Bright 
and other (e.g., satin, brushed, dark, or grained) 
appearances for interior and exterior plastic 
applications, as defined by styling and specific 
appearance standards. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ASTM B368 
ISO 1463 
ASTM B456 
ISO 2177 
ASTM B571 
ISO 3497 
ASTM B764 
ISO 16949 
DIN 50021 
ISO 17025 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
GMN6995 
GMW14458 
GMW3001 
GMW14700 
GMW3059 
GMW14829 
GMW3286 
GMW16193 
3 Requirements 
3.1 Requirements on Delivery 
3.1.1 Appearance Requirements. Parts must 
meet regional appearance requirements. In North 
America, use GMN6995. 
3.1.2 Mechanical Requirements. 
3.1.2.1 Plating Thickness. Shall be determined by 
the microscopic method (ISO 1463) or the 
electrochemical method (ISO 2177). In case of 
disagreements between purchaser and supplier, 
the microscopic method shall be the preferred 
method. 
3.1.2.1.1 Minimum plate thickness as specified in, 
Table B1 applies to all significant surfaces. 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14668 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
November 2009 
Page 2 of 10 
 
Significant surfaces are those normally visible - 
directly or by reflection - on the finished part when 
assembled in car position or which can be the 
source of corrosion deposits that deface visible 
surfaces on the assembled vehicles. The use of 
auxiliary anodes and advanced plating analysis is 
recommended 
such 
as 
Computer 
Aided 
Engineering (CAE) plating thickness simulations 
when there is uncertainty of meeting minimum 
plating thicknesses due to part design features. 
Concerns for meeting minimum plating thicknesses 
should be reported to Material Engineering for 
evaluation. If corrosion products are visible 
anywhere on a finished and dressed component in 
vehicle position after testing, this specification 
requirement is not met. When minimum plating 
thicknesses are specified on surfaces where 
electrochemical methods cannot be increased, use 
of x-ray ISO 3497 is required. 
3.1.2.1.2 Plating thickness measurements shall 
include a mapping of specific areas of the part. 
Locations and key dimensions agreed upon with 
GM Materials Engineer. It is the suppliers’ 
responsibility to insure Material Engineering has 
been consulted on thickness mapping and quality 
assurance plating thickness points. 
3.1.2.1.3 For systems with a total nickel layer 
thickness ≥ 20 microns, multiple layer nickel 
thickness consisting of at least two layers of 
electro-deposited nickel shall be as indicated in 
Table 1. 
3.1.2.1.4 Exterior parts must have three or four 
primary layers of nickel. 
 
Table 1: Nickel Thickness 
Type of 
Nickel 
Layer 
Interior 
Triple 
Layer 
Quad 
Layer 
Semi bright 
50% 
minimum 
60 to 80% 
50 to 
70% 
High-S 
N/A 
N/A 
Required 
Bright 
Note 1 
20 to 40% 
≥ 30% 
Microporous 
N/A 
Required 
Required 
Note 1: If semi bright nickel is required to meet performance 
properties, the balance of bright nickel will be required to meet 
minimum nickel overall thickness and appearance as specified. 
Note 2: N/A = Not applicable. 
 
3.1.2.1.5 
Minimum 
thickness 
and 
corrosion 
resistance performance requirements for textured 
finishes (matte, vapor blast, brush, etc.) apply after 
texturing. 
3.1.3 Additional Requirements. 
3.1.3.1 Substrate/Molded Part. 
3.1.3.1.1 Substrate Type. Only for plastics 
designed and approved by GM for chrome plating 
shall be used. Main types see Table 2. 
 
Table 2: Typical Approved Substrate Types 
Substrate Type 
Typical Max. Use Temp. 
ABS 
+90 ± 3°C 
ABS / PC 
+110 ± 3°C 
PC, PA6, PA66 - MF (10 to 40) 
+120 ± 3°C 
PA6, PA66 - GF (10 to 30) 
+130 ± 3°C 
3.1.3.1.2 
Substrate 
Structure. 
Parts 
shall 
demonstrate no defects like cracks, splay pits or 
sink marks. Parts shall be free of any internal 
stresses 
which 
may 
influence 
adhesion, 
dimensional stability or appearance of the galvanic 
coating. 
3.1.3.1.3 Surface Properties. The surface shall be 
smooth, free of flow lines, cracks, sink marks, 
craters or substrate stratifications which may 
influence the approved appearance or part 
properties. 
3.2. Mechanical Requirements. 
3.2.1. Nickel Electrochemical Potential (Only 
Exterior 
Parts). 
Use 
the 
determination 
of 
electrochemical 
potential 
difference 
following 
ASTM B764. 
3.2.2 The bright (or satin) nickel layer shall exhibit 
an anodic electrochemical potential difference of 
100 to 200 mV to semi bright nickel on all 
significant 
surfaces. 
The 
supplier 
must 
demonstrate the conformance to this requirement 
by using appropriate statistical charting techniques 
on a routine quality control basis. 
3.2.3 The microporous nickel layer shall exhibit a 
cathodic electrochemical potential difference of 
10 to 40 mV to the bright or satin nickel on all 
significant surfaces of all substrates. 
3.2.4 If a microcracking system is used, usually no 
microporous electrochemical potential difference is 
measurable. 
3.2.5 If applicable, high activity nickel strike layer 
shall exhibit an anodic electrochemical potential 
difference of 15 to 40 mV to the bright nickel layer. 
 
 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14668 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
November 2009 
Page 3 of 10 
 
Table 3: Electrochemical Potential Note 1 
Layers 
Potential Range 
Microporous to Bright 
10 to 40mV 
Bright to Semi bright 
100 to 200mV 
High-Sulfur to Bright 
Note 2 
15 to 40mV 
Note 1: Refer to 3.2.1 for direction of potential. 
Note 2: If applicable. 
 
3.2.6 Discontinuous chromium shall be performed 
by either the copper deposition (Dubpernell) 
method or by the determination of active corrosion 
sites after corrosion testing. Both are described in 
the appendix of ASTM B456. In the case of an 
active sites determination, compare the viewed 
sample at 100X to the pore density charts shown in 
Appendix A of this specification to determine pore 
count. 
3.2.7 Microporous System (mp). The micro 
discontinuous chromium surface shall exhibit a 
minimum of 10 000 pores/cm2 as determined by 
copper 
deposition 
and 
5000 
pores/cm2 
as 
determined by active sites per ASTM B456 
Appendix X4 or X5. Photomicrographs should be 
taken to demonstrate effective pore size and 
distribution. 
3.2.8 
Microcracking 
System 
The 
cracked 
chromium 
surface 
shall 
exhibit 
250 
to 
800 cracks/cm and provide a closed homogenous 
network in all directions. Photomicrographs should 
be taken to demonstrate effective pore size and 
distribution. 
3.3 Adhesion. See the adhesion requirements per 
Table B2 in Appendix B. If the part is on a global 
vehicle, perform tests required by the region where 
the part will be first used to go PPAP. In general, 
all chrome plated components are expected to 
exhibit strong adhesion characteristics. This is 
accomplished 
through 
design, 
tooling, 
resin 
characteristics and plating process parameters. 
Whenever possible, due to part geometry, peel 
testing is recommended both at new job start-up 
and throughout production. A one inch width 
specimen will typically yield 0 to 15 lb peel 
strength. It is recommended a mean value on peel 
strength be achieved between 7 to 8 lb. If strong 
adhesion characteristics are not met for any 
reason, Material Engineering is to be contacted so 
that steps can be taken to remedy these 
limitations. The lack of strict peel strength 
requirements is not a basis for any part not 
achieving strong adhesion characteristics that 
result in field failures. It is the plating companies' 
responsibility to bring attention to any part 
geometry limitations leading to poor adhesion. 
3.3.1 Saw Grind Test. Plated plastic components 
shall be subjected to the Saw-Grind Test, ASTM 
B571, with no evidence of lifting or peeling 
between plated layers or between plated layers 
and substrate. Place pressure sensitive adhesion 
tape, as described in GMW14829 approximately 
10 to 20 mm wide over the cut edge (leaving 
sufficient length of tape to grasp between fingers 
for 
quick 
removal); 
quickly 
pull 
tape 
at 
approximately 90 degrees to the surface of part to 
remove entire strip. Examine for evidence of lifting 
of electroplate. 
3.3.2 Temperature Storage. All parts shall be 
temperature 
tested 
for 
6 ± 0.5 h. 
See 
the 
Temperature Cycles. Test pieces shall show no 
surface changes, adhesion loss or other changes 
which reduce the performance and shall comply 
with specified drawing requirements after test. 
3.3.2.1 If not defined separately, all parts will be 
tested to the following temperature: +90 ± 3°C. 
3.3.2.2 For high temperature application areas, 
e.g., engine compartment, the substrate has to be 
selected to suit requirements. Test temperature: 
110 ± 3°C. This must be indicated on the drawing. 
3.3.2.3 Temperature Cycle. All plated plastic parts 
interior and exterior shall be subject to the thermal 
cycling test described below. At the conclusion of 
the test sequence, the plated part shall show no 
deformation, crazing, blistering, splitting, or loss of 
adhesion to the substrate or loss of adhesion 
between individual layers of the metal plating 
layers. 
3.3.2.3.1 Cycle A. The thermal cycling test shall be 
performed as follows: 
a. Expose exterior plated part for 24 ± 1 h 
Copper-Accelerated Acetic Acid Salt Spray 
(CASS) prior to Step (b). Interior plated parts 
should be immersed in water maintained at 
38 ± 1.5C for 22 h prior to Step (b). The 24 h 
requirement takes into account brief periods of 
time to periodically check the CASS chamber 
as specified. 
b. Mount part in a restrained position simulating 
in service usage. One (1) h maximum is 
allowed between end of Step (a) and start of 
Step (c). 
c. Expose part for 1 h minimum at -30 ± 1.5C. 
d. Expose part for 15 minutes minimum at 
25 ± 5C. 
e. Expose part for 1 h minimum in an air 
circulating oven at 85 ± 1.5C. 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14668 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
November 2009 
Page 4 of 10 
 
f. 
Expose part for 15 minutes minimum at 
25 ± 5C. 
g. Steps (c) through (f) constitute one thermal 
cycle. Repeat Steps (c) through (f) 3 additional 
times for a total of four cycles. Examine part 
per the requirements in 3.3.2.3 for evidence of 
electroplate adhesion loss after each cycle. 
h. After completion of fourth thermal cycle step 
(g), expose exterior plated part for 24 ± 1 h 
CASS or interior plated part for 8 ± 1 h CASS. 
i. 
For parts not completely enveloped with 
electroplate, following the fourth cycle, scribe 
an X through the plating at the stop off 
demarcation (edge of plated surface) into the 
basic 
material. 
Place 
pressure 
sensitive 
adhesion tape, as described in GMW14829, 
approximately 20 mm wide over the X (leaving 
sufficient length of tape to grasp between 
fingers for quick removal). Quickly pull tape at 
approximately 90 degrees to the surface of 
part to remove entire tape strip. Examine for 
evidence of lifting of electroplate. 
3.3.2.3.2 Cycle B. The plated part shall be 
subjected to 3 temperature cycles. One (1) cycle 
shall consist of the temperatures listed below: 
a. 22 ± 1 h at +80 ± 3°C followed by 
b. 2 h ± 10 minutes at -20 ± 3°C. 
Immediately upon removal from the refrigerator, 
after the third cycle, the plated part shall be 
subjected to one of the following impact tests: 
Plated parts having a weight of ≤ 440 g shall be 
dropped in the cold condition from a height of 
≈ 1 m onto a hard (stone) floor. 
Plated parts weighing > 440 g: 
A ball of diameter 50 ± 1 mm and a mass of 
550 ± 50 g shall be dropped from a height of ≈ 
80 cm onto the center of the cold test piece, placed 
on a hard (stone) floor. In case of curved test, 
pieces care shall be taken that the test piece is 
supported on the intended attachment areas. 
Immediately following the impact test, the plated 
part shall be further subjected to the test cycle 
listed below. 
c. 1 h ± 5 minutes at +60 ± 3°C followed by 
d. 1 h ± 5 minutes at -40 ± 3°C. 
This test cycle shall be repeated two further times, 
three cycles total. After completion of the third 
thermal cycle step (d), expose the exterior plated 
part for 44 ± 1 h CASS or the interior plated part of 
8 h ± 1 h CASS. 
3.3.2.4 Stone Chipping. Exterior parts (B) and 
Type 2 for component validation only. Significant 
surfaces of the plated part shall be sectioned. For 
European Union (EU) platings, the chip resistance 
tests per GMW14700 is performed followed by a 
thermal cycle (as described under 3.3.2.3) then 
44 h CASS. For US platings 44 h CASS then 
thermal cycle are performed after chip testing. The 
stone chipping test only applies to adhesion 
assessment, not to corrosion. Other performance 
criteria in paragraph 3.3.2.3 apply away from the 
chip sites with no adhesion loss (plating separation 
from substrate) and no blistering (visible as 
distorted reflection) larger than 5 mm diameter at 
chip site is allowed. 
3.3.3 Mechanical Requirements. 
3.3.3.1 
Corrosion 
Resistance. 
Corrosion 
resistance shall be determined by the CASS test, 
GMW14458, ASTM B368 / DIN 50021 (CASS), 
according to the number of hours specified. Plated 
components shall be free of any surface defects 
and free of corrosion on all significant surfaces 
when examined at normal reading distance 
0.5 ± 0.1 m with the unaided eye and uniform 
diffused light. 
3.3.4 Additional Requirements. Platers must be 
approved by respective regions, (for example, 
platers for North American products must go 
through Plater Approval Process per GMW16193). 
A new approval is necessary if any of the following 
changes have occurred: 
 
Substrate Material ex: ABS to ABS+PC 
 
Material supplier ex: Dow to Bayer 
 
Facility/Location 
 
Finish 
4 Manufacturing Process 
Refer to GMW16193 for parts released or PPAP 
through 
GMNA. 
Once 
plating 
optimization 
requirements 
in 
conjunction 
with 
PPAP 
requirements have been achieved, no major 
changes to the 
plating process or plating 
parameters can be made without prior approval 
from Material Engineering. 
5 Rules and Regulations 
5.1 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules 
and Regulations for Material Specifications. 
5.2 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14668 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
November 2009 
Page 5 of 10 
 
6 Approved Sources 
Engineering qualifications of an approved source 
are required for this standard. Only sources listed 
in the GM Materials File (i.e., GM Supply Power) 
under this standard number have been qualified by 
Engineering as meeting the requirements of this 
standard. 
For 
other 
GM 
locations, 
the 
responsible 
Engineering group should be contacted to obtain 
the approved source in that individual country. 
7 Notes 
7.1 Glossary. 
MATSPC: Global repository of GM approved 
materials for corresponding GM Engineering 
Standards. 
7.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. 
ABS 
 
Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene 
APOPS 
Approved Paint on Parts 
CAE 
 
Computer Aided Engineering 
CASS 
Copper-Accelerated Acetic Acid Salt 
Spray 
EU  
 
European Union 
GF  
 
Glass Filled 
mc  
 
microcracking 
MATSPC 
See 7.1 
MF  
 
Mineral Filled 
mp  
 
microporous 
PA  
 
Polyamide (Nylon) 
PPAP  
Production Part Approval Process 
8 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, etc., as follows: 
Material per GMW14668 
9 Release and Revisions 
9.1 Release. This standard originated in October 
2005, replacing GME 00006 and GM4372M. It was 
first approved by the Global Finish Team in June 
2006. It was first published in February 2007. 
9.2 Revisions. 
Rev 
Approval 
Date 
Description (Organization) 
A 
NOV 2009 
Increased active sites, peel 
force adhesion guidelines for 
stone 
chip 
adhesion 
requirements. (Global Finish 
Team) 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14668 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
November 2009 
Page 6 of 10 
 
Appendix A 
 
Figure A1: Pore Density Charts (1 mm by 1 mm) 
Applicable to Both Active Sites and Copper Deposition Evaluation Methods 
 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14668 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
November 2009 
Page 7 of 10 
 
Appendix B 
 
Table B1: Corrosion and Thickness Requirement Note 1, Note 2, Note 3, Note 4, Note 5, Note 6, Note 7 
Code 
Cass 
Plating Thickness 
 
Minimum 
Corrosion 
Resistance 
(h) 
Total 
 
(m) 
minimum 
Copper 
 
(m) 
minimum 
Nickel 
 
(m) 
minimum 
Chromium 
 
(m) 
(A) Interior 
8 
18 
10 
8 
(r) 0.25 minimum 
(mp) 0.25 to 0.5 
minimum 
(mc) 0.25 to 0.5 
minimum 
(B) Exterior 
Type 1 
w/o Stone 
Chip 
Variation 1 
Low Copper 
44 
35 
15 
20 
(mp) 0.25 to 0.5 
Variation 2 
High 
Copper 
44 
35 
25 
15 
(r) not allowed 
(mp) 0.25 to 0.5 
(mc) 0.8 minimum 
Type 2 
with Stone 
Chip 
Variation 1 
Low Copper 
44 
35 
15 
20 
(mp) 0.25 to 0.5 
Variation 2 
High 
Copper 
44 
35 
25 
15 
(r) not allowed 
(mp) 0.25 to 0.5 
(mc) 0.8 minimum 
Type 3 
Very 
Severe 
(Wheel 
caps/clad) 
66 
35 
15 
20 
(mp) 0.25 to 0.5 
Note 1: For non wear interior parts, minimum chromium thickness may be >  0.15 µm if authorized by purchaser and  engineering. 
Approval is indicated by addition of symbol (R) to specification number on drawing. 
Note 2: Tin cobalt alloy may be used in lieu of chromium when symbol (K) is added to the specification number on the drawing. 
Note 3: (r) = continuous chrome, (mp)= microporous chrome, (mc)= microcracked chrome. 
Note 4: Run water immersion per 3.3.2.3.1(a) (instead of first CASS) with thermal followed by 8h CASS. 
Note 5: No impact test during thermal cycle required. 
Note 6: Depending on manufacturing and approval location, supplier must choose one variant. 
Note 7: Wheel clads should be rotated 90 degrees every 22 h in the CASS chamber to avoid areas with high and low salt concentration. 
 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14668 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
November 2009 
Page 8 of 10 
 
Table B2: Adhesion Testing Note 1, Note 2, Note 3, Note 4, Note 5, Note 6 
Code 
Testing 
 
Adhesion 
Temperature 
Storage 
CASS & 
Thermal 
Cycle (A) 
& CASS 
Thermal 
Cycle (B) 
& CASS 
Stone 
Chip & 
CASS & 
Thermal 
Cycle (A) 
Stone 
Chip & 
Thermal 
Cycle (B) 
& CASS 
Saw 
Grid 
(A) Interior 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
(US) 
Yes 
(EU) 
No 
No 
(B) Exterior 
-Type 1 
w/o Stone 
Chip  
Variation 1 
Low Copper 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
No 
No 
Variation 1 
Low Copper 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
No 
- Type 2 
with Stone 
Chip  
Variation1 
Low Copper 
Variation 
2 
High Copper 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
 
Note 1: For nonwear interior parts, minimum chromium thickness may be >  0.15 µm if authorized by purchaser and engineering. Approval 
is indicated by addition of symbol (R) to specification number on drawing. 
Note 2: Tin cobalt alloy may be used in lieu of chromium when symbol (K) is added to the specification number on the drawing. 
Note 3: (r) = continuous chrome, (mp)= microporous chrome, (mc)= microcracked chrome. 
Note 4: Run water immersion per 3.3.2.3.1(a) (instead of first CASS) with thermal followed by CASS. 
Note 5: No impact test during thermal cycle required. 
Note 6: Depending on manufacturing and approval location, supplier must choose one variant. 
 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14668 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
November 2009 
Page 9 of 10 
 
Table B3: Test Data Form Note 1, Note 2, Note 3, Note 4, Note 5, Note 6 
Region: 
 
 
Plater: 
 
Facility: 
 
Substrate: 
 
 
Material Supplier: 
 
Finish: 
 
Test 
Spec 
Requirement  
Sample 1 
Sample 
2 
Sample 3
Sample 
4 
Sample 
5 
Sample 6
Identify variation 
used 
ISO 1463, 
ISO 2177, 
ISO 3497 
Variation 1 
Variation 2 
Interior 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total 
35 
35 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chrome (mp) 
0.25 to 0.50 
0.25 to 0.50 
0.25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chrome (mc) 
N/A  
0.8 
0.25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copper 
15 
25 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total nickel 
20 
15 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Identify number 
of layers used 
Quad Layer 
Triple Layer 
Single or 
double 
layer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Microporous 
Nickel  
Required 
 
Required 
 
N/A 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bright Nickel  
30% 
20 to 40% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
High sulfur 
Nickel  
Required 
 
N/A 
N/A 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semi bright 
Nickel  
51 to 70% 
60 to 80% 
50%  
miminum 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nickel Electrochemical Potential  
Microporous 
To bright 
ASTM B764 
Microporous cathodic to Bright 10 to 40 mV 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bright to semi 
bright 
Bright anodic to semi bright 100 to 200 mV 
 
 
 
 
 
 
High-sulfur 
to 
bright 
High sulfur anodic to bright 15 to 40 mV 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuous Chrome  
Microporous 
(Active Sites) 
ASTM B456 
Appendix X4, 
X5 
5000 pores/cm2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Microporous 
(Dubpernell) 
10 000 pores/cm2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Microcracked 
 
250 to 800 cracks/cm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adhesion 
Saw Grind 
ASTM B571, 
GMW14829 
No lifting of electroplate from substrate, no 
separation between plated layers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Temperature 
Storage 
GMW14668 
No surface changes, adhesion loss, or other 
changes which reduce performance and 
comply with specified drawing requirements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Temperature Cycle 
GMW14668 
No deformation, crazing, blistering, splitting, 
or loss of adhesion between layers of the 
metal plating layers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stone Chipping 
GMW14700, 
GMW14668 
No plating separation from substrate and no 
blistering (visible as distorted reflection) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corrosion Resistance 
Corrosion 
GMW14458, 
ASTM 
B368/DIN 
50021, 
GMW3286 
Free of any surface defects and free of 
corrosion on all significant surfaces at the 
conclusion of specified number of hours. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1: If a range is not specified, value is minimum requirement. 
Note 2: Percentage of Total Nickel. 
Note 3: Exterior Only. 
Note 4: Not Applicable. 
Note 5: Indicate Single or Double Layer. 
Note 6: If Semi bright nickel is required to meet performance properties, the balance of bright nickel will be required to meet minimum 
nickel overall thickness and appearance as specified. 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14668 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
November 2009 
Page 10 of 10 
 
 
Figure B1: Sample Electro Potential (STEP) Graph for Four Nickel Layers 
 
 
Figure B2: Example of Quad Layer Nickel 
 
 
