# GMW 3044_2005.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Material Specification 
Finish 
GMW3044 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Zinc Plating 
 
 
1 Scope 
This specification covers the basic requirements 
for electroplated zinc applied to iron and steel 
substrates with provision for plating thickness, use 
or non-use of supplementary treatments and 
corrosion resistance. Provision is also made to 
specify mechanical plating. GMNA MATSPC 
approvals for this finish are specific to the post-
supplementary treatment (Suffix) evaluated for 
initial 
chemical/applicator 
approval 
(reference 
section 6 Approved Sources). 
1.1 Material Description. This coating system 
must be free of hexavalent chromium, per 
GMW3059 requirements. The plating shall be 
shown on the part drawing as per the example 
shown in Section 7. Table 1 lists the common 
plating 
thickness 
codes 
covered 
by 
this 
specification. 
It is recommended to use these common codes to 
avoid product complexity. 
This plating is at present approved in clear (bright) 
color only. Black color (passivation product) as 
shown in Table 1 is not approved yet. Any other 
colors (where color is developed by adding 
pigment), if required don’t need specially approved 
source for the color. Establish availability at one of 
the sources approved to the required post-
supplementary code (suffix) before putting any 
color other than clear (Bright) on the drawing. 
1.2 
Cross-Reference 
of 
Replaced 
Specifications.  
GMW 
GMW3044  
Delta Motors  
 
GM do Brasil  
 
GM Holdens 
HN1264  
GMNA  
GM4345M  
ISUZU  
 
ITDC  
GME 00252  
SAAB  
 
 
1.3 Typical Applications. Zinc plating is typically 
applied on small to medium-sized ferrous parts 
such as castings, fasteners, stampings, and clips. 
1.3.1 Zinc plated parts or their corrosion products 
must not come in contact with stressed Polyamides 
6 or 66. 
1.3.2 Zinc plating types without supplementary 
treatment are also used as a basecoat for an 
additional paint. This coating must be so applied 
that no negative influence in appearance and 
adhesion appears (e.g. blistering by effusion of 
hydrogen). 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ASTM F1470 
SAE/USCAR-5 
DIN 946 
SAE/USCAR-7 
ISO 9227 
SAE/USCAR-11 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
9984094 
GM6175M 
9985490 
GM6189P 
GM4260P 
GMW3001 
GM6121M 
GMW3059 
GM6121M 
 
3 Requirements 
3.1 Appearance. The as-received appearance and 
color hue shall be as agreed upon between the 
purchaser and supplier using approved color and 
hue engineering standards when available. In the 
case of zinc plus passivation coating listed herein, 
a clean, commercial finish is required; range of 
color, iridescence, opaqueness, and sheen are 
normally not critical unless otherwise specified by 
the purchaser. In the case of bright zinc plus clear 
finishes listed herein, a clear bright appearance 
(also referred to as colorless, blue-bright and clear 
silver-white) is required. Specified colors shall be 
uniform, tightly adherent, hard and dry. 
3.2 Plate Thickness. Thickness of plate shall be 
no less than the values shown in Table 1 or as 
designated for the suffix specified by Product 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
April 2005 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 5
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW3044 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
Engineering. Such values are intended to apply to 
significant surfaces as specified on engineering 
drawings. 
In 
the 
case 
of 
finishes 
with 
supplementary treatment, color, etc., the values 
shown apply to the thickness of plate after 
treatment. Supplementary treatments such as oils, 
waxes or other specified coatings are not 
applicable to thickness measurements. The plating 
thickness on bolts and screws shall be measured 
on the head and the thread tip, on nuts it shall be 
measured on the spanner flats. 
3.2.1 The thickness of the plated finish shall be 
determined by microscopic examination of cross 
sections 
taken 
perpendicular 
to 
significant 
surfaces, or by other methods agreed upon by the 
supplier and purchaser. For recommended practice 
for measuring thickness of electrodeposits see 
GM4260P. 
3.2.2 The maximum allowable thickness of the 
plating on threaded fasteners shall be twice the 
minimum 
specified 
plating 
thickness. 
The 
maximum thickness of plating, which may be 
applied to threads on threaded products, is limited 
by the basic thread size (tolerance h or H). After 
coating, parts must gage with appropriate basic 
size GO thread gage. Threads may be produced 
undersize/oversize 
(before 
coating) 
to 
accommodate the coating thickness, providing the 
finished product (after coating) meets all specified 
mechanical 
properties. 
Where 
mechanical 
properties are not specified, undersizing/oversizing 
is subject to approval by pertinent engineer, and all 
undersize/oversize shall be within permissible 
limits as agreed upon. 
3.2.3 The allowable variation of maximum plating 
thickness in case of non fasteners could be more 
than twice the minimum specified plating thickness, 
as long as it shall not effect the function of the part. 
Note: 
In 
special 
cases, 
such 
as 
welding 
applications, 
limiting 
the 
maximum 
plating 
thickness to a specific requirement shall be noted 
on the engineering drawing. 
3.3 Adhesion. The coating shall have good 
adhesion to the base material. There shall be no 
blistering or flaking of the finish, including after any 
heat treatment as follows: 
The adhesion in the as-received conditions shall 
be checked as follows:  
Expose coated parts to 220 ± 5°C for 30 ± 5 
minutes and quench in water at room temperature. 
After quenching in water blistering and/or chipping 
is not allowed.  
Electrolytically coated components produced from 
aqueous solutions must satisfy the mechanical 
property requirements of the uncoated parts. 
3.4 Corrosion Resistance. Parts plated to these 
specifications shall be capable of withstanding 
NSS testing for the minimum number of hours 
shown in Table 1 or as designated for the suffix 
specified by the purchaser. 
3.4.1 Parts must be tested to ISO 9227 to meet the 
corrosion resistance requirements on significant 
surfaces per 3.4.4 and 3.4.5 for initial approval of 
the finish, applicator and PPAP submissions. 
3.4.2 For the normal production process, the NSS 
test shall be part of the applicator’s statistical 
process control to ensure that parts meet the 
corrosion resistance requirements. 
3.4.3 The applicator shall run a periodic NSS test 
of the parts in process on each line running this 
coating, with sample size of three pieces minimum 
per shift per line. Based upon the chemical 
manufacturer’s instructions the actual processing 
control checks shall be made and recorded. The 
supplier shall maintain the test results in a file to be 
submitted when required by GM, unless otherwise 
agreed between the purchaser and supplier. 
3.4.4 Significant surfaces for test evaluation of 
fasteners shall be all exposed surfaces of the 
fastener when installed, including but not limited to 
fastener heads, socket recess, sems washers and 
external surface of nuts. Fastener threads and 
point are excluded unless otherwise specified on 
the drawing. 
3.4.5 Significant surfaces on parts other than 
threaded fasteners shall be all surfaces. Deep 
recesses, such as blind holes and the interior of 
tubes are excluded unless otherwise specified on 
the drawing. 
3.4.6 
In 
the 
case 
of 
finishes 
involving 
supplementary treatment, parts shall be aged at 
the ambient laboratory temperatures for at least 24 
h before the test. In some cases, a heat treatment 
1 h ± 5 minutes at +150 ± 5°C may be required 
prior to NSS testing. When such treatment is 
necessary, it shall be specified on the part drawing 
by using an H in the plating suffix as shown in the 
section 7 of this specification. In this case the finish 
shall meet the corrosion resistance requirements 
before and after heat treatment. 
3.4.7 When evaluation of zinc corrosion products is 
specified, acceptable resistance is defined as no 
white corrosion products on significant surfaces 
after exposure to NSS for the number of hours 
shown. 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 5 
April

GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW3044
 
3.4.8 Except for black, color dyed, bright, light 
iridescent blue and clear coatings, the degree of 
color change after salt spray test is not a significant 
parameter unless otherwise agreed upon by the 
purchaser and supplier. 
 
Table 1: Zinc Plating and Related Finishes 
Neutral Salt Spray, h 
(Note 5) 
Code 
to Specification 
Number 
Minimum Plating 
Thickness 
(µm) 
(Note 2) 
 
Supplementary 
Treatment 
(Note 3) 
Typical 
Appearance 
(Note 4) 
Base Metal 
Corrosion 
Zinc 
Corrosion 
Product 
(Note 6)
3U24/0 
3 
24 
– 
6U48/0 
6 
48 
– 
9U72/0 
9 
72 
– 
12U96/0 
12 
96 
– 
15U120/0 
15 
None 
No 
Requirement 
120 
– 
6K96/48 
6 
96 
48 
8K240/120 
8 
240 
120 
15K360/120 
15 
Passivation 
/Conversion 
Coating 
 
Clear (Bright) 
360 
120 
8B240/120 
8 
Passivation 
/Conversion 
Coating 
Black 
240 
120 
Note: Other codes are possible in special cases e.g.11K360/120 and may be devised as per the guidelines in paragraph 1.1.  Establish 
availability before creating special codes. 
Note1: Where a mechanical (peen) plating is required in lieu of electroplating, the letter M is added to the code in the position immediately 
following the thickness number, e.g.: GMW3044 6MU48/0.  
Note 2: See paragraphs 3.2.2 and 3.2.3 for maximum thickness requirements. Any deviation for the plating thickness requirements can be 
shown on the drawing of the part. 
Note 3: Further supplementary treatments such as oil, wax or other coatings, if required, are specified on the drawing as suffix Y. Any 
changes that affect corrosion properties shall be negotiated between the purchaser and supplier.  
Note 4: Clear (Bright) and Black colors are available. Establish availability before putting any color other than Clear (Bright) and Black on 
drawing. Unless other color is specified supplier will process the parts in Clear (Bright) color. 
Note 5: When the finish is to be heat treated prior to salt spray testing, the letter H shall be shown as the last character of the plating code, 
e.g. GMW3044 8K240/120XH. Samples shall be heat treated for 1 h ± 5 minutes at (+150 ± 5)°C.  
Note 6: Codes that specify more than 48 h to zinc corrosion products may require special handling. The suffixes T, X, Y, G, or N when 
added to the plating code, indicate the application of post-treatment materials as described in 3.6. Example: 8K240/120X. 
 
3.5 Hydrogen Embrittlement. All parts heat 
treated or highly cold worked to the specified core 
hardness greater than HRC 32 or surface 
hardness HRC 35, which are processed through 
the hydrogen generating processes shall be 
processed per SAE/USCAR-5 and tested for de-
embrittlement per SAE/USCAR-7. The sample size 
for the SAE/USCAR-7 test shall be per ASTM 
F1470. 
3.5.1 When supplementary treatment is specified 
for a part that requires baking after plating, the 
supplementary treatment shall be applied after the 
baking operation. 
3.6 
Processing 
Requirements. 
For 
certain 
applications a post-treatment of the electrolytically 
coated components — with or without passivation 
— may be necessary, using lubricants, waxes, 
dipping solutions or other materials. In this case 
the following suffixes apply:  
T: with or without dipping solution, coefficient of 
friction 0.13 ± 0.03 (6-sigma). This suffix is to be 
used on fasteners of special applications to meet 
3.7, 3.8 and 3.9 requirements. 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
April 2005 
Page 3 of 5
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW3044 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
X: with dipping solution only. 
G: with or without dipping solution, coefficient of 
friction 0.13 ± 0.03 (6-sigma). This suffix is to be 
used on general fasteners to meet the basic 
torque- tension/coefficient of friction requirements 
per 3.7 and 3.8.  
Y: other material, as specified on drawing. Y suffix 
could be used along with other suffix in a code if 
required (example: GMW3044 8K 240/120NY, then 
describe ‘Y” on the drawing)  
N: without any dipping solution, lubricant, or any 
chemicals applied.  
Note: If no suffix to the code is used the provision 
of suffix N shall apply. 
3.6.1 All these treatments shall not reduce the 
corrosion protection of the finish. 
3.7 Torque-Tension Test. For bolts and nuts 
which are post-treated to suffixes G and T, M10 x 
1.5 surrogate bolts shall be processed with the 
production parts. A minimum of ten bolts per finish 
line per shift shall be tested per SAE/USCAR-11, 
except tightening speed shall be 30 ± 3 RPM and 
test parts as shown in Table 2. The six sigma 
torque value must be within the listed range (Table 
2). The test results shall be maintained in the file to 
be submitted when required by GM. 
 
Table 2: Test Parts 
Thread Size 
Surrogate 
Bolt Part 
Number 
Test Nut Part 
Number 
Test Washer 
Part Number
Torque (N·m)
Tension (kN) 
Suffixes 
M10 x 1.5 
11516105 
11516090 
11502644 
48 ± 8 
28.3 
T and G 
Note: Engineering drawings for surrogate fasteners for Torque-Tension test are available from Global Engineering Document/IHS. 
 
3.8 Coefficient of Friction. For fasteners, which 
are post-treated to suffixes G and T, the coefficient 
of friction of the threaded fasteners tested per DIN 
946 shall be 0.13 ± 0.03 (6-sigma). 
Note: Both tests shall be run for the initial approval 
of the finish materials. Suppliers are required to run 
either the Torque-Tension Test or the Coefficient of 
Friction Test for routine test. 
3.8.1 Coefficient of Friction Test. The coefficient 
of friction of threaded fasteners shall be tested per 
DIN 946 with the following exceptions:  
• 
Tightening speed shall be 30 ± 3 RPM 
• 
Test samples (excluding driven fasteners shall 
be thoroughly cleaned with an appropriate 
fluid/chemical 
to 
remove 
any 
grease/oil/wax/other contaminants.  
• 
Test clamping force shall be calculated at 75% 
of proof load. 
3.9 Bearing Surface Characteristics. For bolts 
and nuts which are post treated to suffix T, M10 
heavy flange bolts (part number 11900193 or 
equivalent) shall be monitored per SAE/USCAR-11 
with the following requirements: Tightening speed 
shall be 30 ± 3 RPM. Test nut shall be 11516090. 
Tension load shall be 24 kN. Tests shall be 
conducted with ELPO coated test washers 
(11515490 except unhardened and coated with 
9984094, medium build ELPO) and aluminium test 
washers (3.0 mm min thick, (10.25...10.50) hole 
size, AA6063T52 aluminium). The 6-sigma torque 
range must lie within (35...52) N·m for ten samples 
tested for both the ELPO and aluminum bearing 
surfaces.  
Note: This test is required for the initial approval of 
the finish chemicals only. This testing does not 
supersede PPAP requirements of the individual 
part. 
3.10 Thread Locking/Sealing Compatibility. The 
finish shall be compatible with thread adhesives, 
non- 
metallic 
elements/sealers 
in 
thread 
locking/sealing abilities when tested per GM6124M 
(paragraphs 3.4 & 4.1), GM6175M (paragraph 6.1), 
GM6189P 
(paragraph 
4.1), 
and 
9985490 
(paragraph 4.3) specifications.  
Note: This test is required for the initial approval of 
the finish chemicals only. This testing does not 
supersede PPAP requirements of the individual 
part. 
3.11 Label Adhesion Compatibility. This finish 
shall be compatible with labels (Part Number 
12565635 or label of equivalent construction) in 
adhesion when tested per GM6121M (paragraph 
4.2). Test plaques (Steel, 75 x 125 mm) containing 
the plating post treatment and affixed label shall be 
tested per GM6121M. 
Note: This test is required for the initial approval of 
the finish chemicals only. This testing does not 
supersede PPAP requirements of the individual 
part. 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 4 of 5 
April 2005
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW3044
 
4 Manufacturing Process 
Not applicable. 
5 Rules and Regulations 
5.1 All materials supplied to this specification must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules 
and Regulations for Material Specifications. 
5.2 All materials supplied to this specification must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. 
6 Approved Sources 
Suppliers to this specification must be approved by 
the respective GM Specialist Teams/TDGs. GMNA 
approved supplier names are available in the on-
line MATSPC system. GMNA approvals are 
specific to the post supplementary treatment suffix 
(T, G, X, or N) tested for initial approval of the 
supplier. Approval to suffix G & X will be automatic 
with a suffix T approval, and a suffix X approval will 
be automatic with a suffix G approval due to subset 
test requirements. Any approved applicator can 
provide zinc plated parts without passivation 
conversion (code U). The GM MATSPC system 
supplier approval listings include the specific suffix 
approvals. For other GM locations, the appropriate 
engineering group should be contacted to obtain 
the approved sources in the individual countries. 
7 Coding System 
This material specification shall be referenced in 
other documents, drawings, VTS, CTS, etc. as 
follows: 
Material per GMW3044 
Example:  
Zinc Plating per GMW3044 15K360/120XH (clear) 
indicates the following:  
3044 – Specification Number  
15 – 15 micrometer min thickness  
K – Clear conversion coating  
360 – 360 h NSS without evidence of base metal 
corrosion  
120 – 120 h NSS requirement for white corrosion  
X – with dipping solution only. 
H – Heat Treatment required prior to NSS testing  
Clear – Clear appearance 
8 Release and Revisions 
8.1 Release. This specification was first approved 
in February 2000 and published in June 2000. 
8.2 Revisions. 
Rev 
Approval 
Date 
Description (Organization) 
E 
SEP 2004 Revised Table 1 and Note 2 
and 
6, 
old 
paragraphs 
3.1.3.2.2, 
3.1.4.1.4, 
3.2, 
3.2.2.2.1 and Appendix A and 
rewrote 
in 
new 
GMW 
template. (GMNA) 
F 
APR 2005 Revised sections 1, 6 and 
Table 1, added tightening 
speed 
to 
3.1.4.10,deleted 
Appendix 
A 
with 
some 
editorial changes. 
 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
April 2005 
Page 5 of 5
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,`,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
