# GMW 4700_2004.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING
STANDARDS 
Material Specification 
Finish  
GMW4700 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Zinc Alloy Plating 
 
 
© Copyright 2004 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
October 2004 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 4
 
1 Scope 
This specification covers the basic requirements 
for barrel or rack electrodeposited zinc alloy 
plating over a ferrous substrate. Various alloy 
platings are covered by this specification with 
supplementary treatments. Table 1 lists the zinc 
alloy finishes covered by this specification. 
Note: This finish is not recommended for 
applications where white corrosion is a cosmetic 
concern. 
1.1 Material Description. To distinguish between 
alloys, the chemical symbol of the alloying element 
must be added as a suffix to the specification 
number to designate the alloy desired. This 
coating system must be free of hexavalent 
chromium with no hexavalent chromium per the 
requirements of GMW3059.  
1.2 Plating Composition. The percentage of 
alloying element present in the zinc alloy 
electrodeposit differs for each of the zinc alloys. 
The concentration limits for the various alloys are 
shown in Table 1. 
1.2.1 Accurate control of alloy composition and 
alloy ratios within the limits given in Table 1 are 
essential for optimum corrosion resistance and 
plating performance. 
1.3 
Cross-Reference 
of 
Replaced 
Specifications. 
GMW 
GMW4700 
Delta Motors 
 
GM do Brazil 
 
Holdens 
 
GMNA 
GM 6280M 
ITDC 
 
ISUZU 
 
SAAB 
 
 
1.4 Typical Application. Zinc alloy plating is 
especially suitable for small to medium ferrous 
parts such as castings, stampings, clips, fasteners 
and other ferrous parts where levels of corrosion 
protection exceeding pure zinc are required. A 
suffix code G is to be used when specified on 
fasteners. Use of this finish on fasteners could 
affect 
the 
torque-tension 
relationship. 
It 
is 
recommended that a torque-tension study of the 
fastener joint be performed before use of this finish 
on fasteners.  
1.4.1 Zinc Alloy plated parts or their corrosion 
products must not come in contact with stressed 
Polyamides 6 or 66. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications  
ASTM 1470 
SAE/USCAR-1 
ISO 1463 
SAE/USCAR-5 
ISO 9227 
SAE/USCAR-7 
ISO 11014 
SAE/USCAR-11 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications.  
GM500M 
GMW3001 
GM4465P 
GMW3034 
GM9540P 
GMW3059 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW4700 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2004 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 4 
October 2004
 
Table 1: Alloy Compositions, Concentration Ranges and Corrosion Performance 
Alloy Element 
Wt. % Alloy Element 
Hours to Red Rust (Min) 
Cobalt (Zn-Co) 
0.5-1.5 
400 
Iron (Zn-Fe) 
0.4-0.8 
480 
Nickel (Zn-Ni) 
5-15 
480 
Cobalt-Iron (Zn-Co-Fe) 
Co 0.3-0.7, Fe 0.4-0.8 
480 
 
3 Requirements 
3.1 Mechanical Requirements. The coating shall 
have good adhesion to base material. There shall 
be no blistering or flaking after any heat treatment 
as detailed in clause 3.3.3. 
The adhesion in the as received conditions shall 
be checked as follows: 
Expose coated parts to 220 ± 5 C for 30 ± 5 
minutes and quench in water at room temperature. 
After quenching in water blistering and/or chipping 
is not allowed. 
Electrolytically coated components produced from 
aqueous solutions must satisfy the mechanical 
property requirements of the uncoated parts. 
3.2 Physical Requirements. 
3.2.1 Appearance. A clean commercial finish that 
is uniform, tightly adherent, hard and dry is 
required. 
Range 
of 
color, 
iridescence, 
opaqueness, and sheen are normally not critical. If 
a color, such as black is required, it shall be 
specified on the part drawing. 
3.2.2 Thickness. When applied to threaded 
products, the coating shall not have an adverse 
effect on normal installation and removal practices. 
At the same time coating thickness shall be 
adequate 
to 
provide 
corrosion 
resistance 
performance requirements. 
3.2.2.1 The maximum thickness of coating which 
may be applied to threads on threaded products is 
limited by the basic thread size (tolerance h or H). 
After coating, parts must gage with appropriate 
basic size GO thread gages. Threads may be 
produced undersize/oversize (before coating) to 
accommodate the coating thickness, provided the 
finished product (after coating) meets all specified 
mechanical 
properties. 
Where 
mechanical 
properties are not specified, undersizing/oversizing 
is subject to approval by the pertinent engineer 
and 
all 
undersize/oversize 
shall 
be 
within 
permissible limits as agreed upon. 
3.2.2.2 Thickness of plate shall be no less than 8 
µm or as designated otherwise on engineering 
drawings. 
Supplementary 
treatment 
is 
not 
applicable 
to 
thickness 
measurements. 
The 
supplier shall monitor the thickness and maintain 
the test results on file to be submitted when 
required. ISO 1463, microscopic test to measure 
the thickness of plating shall be used as a referee 
test. 
Caution: Zinc nickel alloys tend to chip easily 
when the deposit thickness exceeds 15 µm and 
the nickel content exceeds 8%. This can become a 
factor on parts with high large protrusions where 
high current density will increase both nickel 
content and deposit thickness. 
3.3 Additional Requirements 
3.3.1 Corrosion Resistance. Parts plated to this 
specification when neutral salt spray (NSS) tested 
(ISO 9227) shall show no base metal corrosion 
(red rust) after exposure for minimum hours 
specified in Table 1 on significant surfaces. 
The corrosion testing of the threaded fasteners 
must follow the procedures as outlined in 
SAE/USCAR 1. 
Note: The salt spray test is only used to test the 
integrity of the alloy deposit and the effectiveness 
of the supplemental treatment. The hours to white 
or red corrosion products shall not be construed 
as having any correlation to the actual service life 
of the part. 
3.3.1.1 For normal production, processes that are 
in statistical process control shall yield parts that 
are capable of meeting the same salt spray 
requirements 
3.3.1.2 A periodic NSS test of the parts being 
processed on each line running this coating shall 
be conducted sample size of three pieces 
minimum per line per shift. 
3.3.1.3 Actual processing control checks to be 
made and recorded shall be based on chemical 
manufacturer’s instructions. 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW4700
 
© Copyright 2004 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
October 2004 
Page 3 of 4
 
3.3.1.4 Significant surfaces for test evaluation of 
fasteners shall be all exposed surfaces of the 
fastener when installed, including but not limited to 
fastener heads, socket recess, sems washers and 
external surface of nuts. Fastener threads and 
point are excluded unless otherwise specified on 
the drawing. 
3.3.1.5 Significant surfaces on parts other than 
threaded fasteners shall be all surfaces. Deep 
recesses, such as blind holes and the interior of 
tubes are excluded unless otherwise specified on 
the drawing. 
3.3.1.6 Temperature Resistance. After heating the 
parts for 1h at 150C (part temperature) the 
corrosion resistance requirements as specified in 
3.3.1 shall still be met. This test requirement is 
only for initial approval of the finish material. 
3.3.2 
Accelerated 
Corrosion. 
Accelerated 
corrosion test, GM9540P, shall be conducted with 
this finish on plated parts, using production 
methods (sample size, N = 10 minimum). Samples 
for test purposes shall be either panels or small 
brackets with enough surface area for good visual 
examination, except for approvals to Code G. For 
Code G M10 fasteners shall be used.  
After 24 test cycles, the plated parts shall exhibit 
no red rust and 30% max. white corrosion 
coverage. After 40 test cycles, the plated parts 
shall exhibit 10% max. red rust coverage and 50% 
max. white corrosion coverage.  
Note: This test is required for the initial approval of 
the chemicals only. 
3.3.3 Hydrogen Embrittlement. All parts heat 
treated or highly cold worked to the specified core 
hardness of HRC 32 or greater or surface 
hardness HRC 35 or greater, that are finished in 
accordance with this specification, must be 
processed by the applicator per SAE/USCAR-5 
and tested for de-embrittlement per SAE/USCAR-
7. The test frequency and sample size for 
SAE/USCAR-7 test shall be per ASTM F1470. 
When a part requires baking after plating, the 
supplementary treatment shall be applied after the 
baking operation. 
3.3.4 Label Testing Requirements. Parts that 
require both a label and a post treatment must be 
humidity tested per GM4465P for 96 hrs. The label 
shall exhibit no blistering, wrinkling, visible loss of 
adhesion or color change. The recommended 
label part number is 12565635 from MacArthur, 
810-606-1777, or an equivalent construction. 
Note: When running this test for the initial approval 
of the finish material use labels with an acrylic 
adhesive measuring approximately 1 x 3 inches. 
When running this test for PPAP, use the 
production intent label. 
3.3.5 Torque-Tension. Metric threaded fasteners 
M6 and larger requiring torque-tension shall be 
specified on the part drawing with a suffix Code G. 
These fasteners shall be subject to torque-tension 
testing monitoring through the use of surrogate 
M10 x 1.5 test bolts. Ten surrogate bolts shall be 
processed with the production parts. A minimum of 
10 bolts per finish line per shift shall be monitored 
per SAE/USCAR-11, except tightening speed shall 
be 30 ± 3 RPM. The six sigma torque range value 
must be within the listed range (See Table 2). The 
test results shall be maintained in a file to be 
submitted when required. 
Table 2: Torque-Tension Test Parts and Requirements 
Thread Size 
Surrogate 
Bolt 
Part 
Number 
Test Nut 
Part 
Number 
Test 
Washer 
Part 
Number 
Torque 
(Nm) 
SAE/USCAR-
11 
Tension 
(kN) 
M10 x 1.5 
11516105 
11516090 
11502644 
48 ± 8 
28.3 
 
3.3.6 Coefficient of Friction. A suffix code G is to 
be used when specified on fasteners. The 
coefficient of friction of threaded fasteners shall be 
0.13 ± 0.03 (six sigma value) when tested per DIN 
946 with the following exceptions.  
• 
Test samples (excluding driven fasteners) 
shall 
be 
thoroughly 
cleaned 
with 
an 
appropriate fluid/chemical to remove any 
grease/oil/wax/other contaminants. 
• 
Test clamping force shall be calculated as 
75% of proof load. 
Note: Torque-Tension Test and Coefficient of 
Friction Tests are required for the initial approval 
of the finish material. Supplier/Applicators can run 
either Torque-Tension or Coefficient of Friction 
Test for quality control. 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW4700 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2004 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 4 of 4 
October 2004
 
3.3.7 Additional Requirements. Post-treated 
parts shall be supplied in clean and dry to touch 
condition. 
3.4 Chemical Requirements  
3.4.1 Recyclability. Parts with this coating shall 
not have any negative effect on recyclability of the 
parts. 
3.4.2 Physiological Safety. The coating material 
must not cause any health hazard either to line 
operators or customers. 
4 Manufacturing Process 
Cleanability. Parts must be free from die lubricants 
and drawing compounds that will adversely affect 
the plating. 
Parts which show uncleanable surfaces, not 
affected by normal cleaners, should be noted to 
the manufacturer and special techniques, as 
recommended by the oil supplier, applied and so 
noted. 
5 Rules and Regulations 
5.1 All materials supplied to this specification must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules 
and Regulations for Material Specifications. 
5.2 All materials supplied to this specification must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. 
6 Approved Sources 
Engineering qualification of an approved source is 
required for this specification. Only sources listed 
in the GM Materials File (i.e., MATSPC) under this 
specification number have been qualified by 
engineering as meeting the requirements of this 
specification. Approvals in MATSPC are specific to 
the approved Zn alloy (i.e. ZnFe, ZnNi, ZnFe, or 
ZnFeCo), color (i.e. clear or black) and suffix code 
(i.e. no code or Code G.) 
For 
other 
GM 
locations 
the 
responsible 
engineering group should be contacted to obtain 
the approved source in the individual country.  
7 Coding System 
This material specification shall be referenced in 
other documents, drawing, VTS, CTS, etc. as 
follows: 
GMW4700 Zn-Ni, Code G 
GMW = GM Worldwide 
4700 = Specification Number 
Zn-Ni = Alloy Type 
Code G = Torque-Tension Control, Threaded 
Fastener Application only 
8 Release and Revisions 
8.1 Release. This material specification was first 
approved in May 2002. 
8.2 Revisions.  
Rev. 
Approval 
Date  
Description (Organization) 
A 
NOV 2003 
Added Code G, fastener 
requirements, revised 
paragraph 3.1.4.2 (GMNA) 
B 
SEP 2004 
Editorial changes (GMNA) 
 
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
