# GMW 3179_2007.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Material Specification 
Finish 
GMW3179 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protective Finishes – Zinc Phosphate Type 
 
 
© Copyright 2007 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
July 2007 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 4
 
1 Scope 
This standard covers the basic requirements for 
corrosion resistant finishes for iron and steel 
substrates whose basic characteristic is zinc 
phosphate treatment and subsequent protective 
compound. Parts coated with this coating are 
typically 
used 
internally 
for 
engines 
and 
transmissions 
or 
in 
areas 
where 
minimum 
corrosion protection is required. (e.g. low visible 
areas in the passenger compartment) 
Finishes with oil coatings are not recommended for 
usage against plastic surfaces. It is recommended 
that preapplied adhesives, sealers and nylon-type 
patching 
elements 
be 
applied 
before 
supplementary treatments. (code A, B, G, H, W, & 
Y.) 
1.1 Material Description. The material approved 
to 
this specification 
covers 
zinc 
phosphate 
treatments plus subsequent protective compounds. 
This coating system must be free of hexavalent 
chromium with no hexavalent chromium in final 
product per the requirements of GMW3059. 
GMW3034 shall be used as a referee test. This 
coating process does not generate hydrogen, 
however, pretreatment processes i.e. acid pickling 
could cause hydrogen absorption. This coating has 
high 
permeability, 
which 
allows 
effusion 
of 
hydrogen during curing which might have been 
absorbed during acid pickling. 
This finish could be zinc phosphate only or 
different 
supplemental 
treatments 
with 
zinc 
phosphate as shown in Table 2 as different codes 
of this specification. 
1.2 Typical Applications. This coating is suitable 
for internally threaded parts, parts with internal 
drive recess, externally threaded and non-threaded 
ferrous parts where minimum corrosion protection 
and freedom from hydrogen embrittlement are 
required. 
1.3 Remarks. Use of this coating on threaded 
surfaces and/or bearing surfaces of joints could 
affect 
the 
torque-tension 
relationship. 
It 
is 
recommended that a torque-tension study of the 
fastener joint be performed before releasing this 
finish on any new application. 
1.3.1 Coefficient of friction/torque tension values in 
this specification are determined at ambient 
temperatures. New applications for this finish 
should be tested to confirm performance under 
application specific, operating conditions. 
1.3.2 Finishes with integrated lubricant (Code G & 
H) conforming to the requirements of this 
specification can be used in the application range 
of -50 to +120°C. For applications outside of this 
temperature 
range 
consult 
your 
local 
Material/Fastener Engineering group. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ASTM F1470 
SAE/USCAR-5 
ISO 1463 
SAE/USCAR-7 
ISO 16047 
SAE/USCAR-11 
SAE/USCAR-1 
 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
GM6189P  
GMW3286 
GMW3001 
GMW14729 
GMW3034 
GMW14829 
GMW3059 
 
3 Requirements 
3.1 Appearance. Unless otherwise specified, the 
color of the protective coatings described herein 
shall be dark grey. 
3.2 Surface. Code G parts shall be evenly coated 
and dry to touch such that when held with 
Watman’s Number 41 filter paper or equivalent 
ashless quantitative filter paper, pore size 20 to 
25 µm and applying light hand pressure for 5 to 
10 s, there shall be no visible staining of the filter 
paper when viewed without using supplementary 
magnification. For reference purpose this test shall 
be carried out using a force of 10 N. 
3.3 
Thickness. 
When 
applied 
to 
threaded 
products, the coating shall not have an adverse 
effect on normal installation and removal practices. 
At the same time coating thickness shall be 


GMW3179 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2007 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 4 
July 2007
 
adequate to provide corrosion resistance and 
performance requirements (See Table 2). 
3.3.1 The maximum thickness of coating which 
may be applied to threads on threaded products is 
limited by the basic thread size (tolerance h or H). 
After coating, parts must gage with appropriate 
basic size GO thread gages. Threads may be 
produced undersize/oversize (before coating) to 
accommodate the coating thickness, provided the 
finished product (after coating) meets all specified 
mechanical 
properties. 
Where 
mechanical 
properties are not specified, undersizing/oversizing 
is subject to approval by the pertinent engineer and 
all undersize/oversize shall be within permissible 
limits as agreed upon. Fastener supplier will 
consult with the coating applicator to determine the 
appropriate thread size before coating. 
Note: The applicator can use a non-destructive 
method to monitor the day to day thickness results, 
however 
a 
relation 
with 
correct 
thickness 
measured by microscopic test and the readings by 
non 
destructive 
test 
must 
be 
established. 
ISO 1463, microscopic test to measure the 
thickness of plating/coating shall be used as the 
referee test method. 
3.3.2 The maximum coating thickness under the 
head of bolts and screws shall not exceed 25 µm. 
Supplier shall monitor the thickness and maintain 
the test results in file to be submitted when 
required. 
Note: ISO 1463, microscopic test to measure the 
thickness of plating/coating shall be used as a 
referee test method. 
3.4 Corrosion Resistance. Parts plated to this 
specification when neutral salt spray (NSS) tested 
(GMW3286) shall show no base metal corrosion 
(red rust) after exposure for minimum h specified in 
Table 2 on significant surfaces. 
The corrosion testing of the threaded fasteners 
must follow the procedures as outlined in 
SAE/USCAR-1. 
Note: The salt spray test is only used to test the 
integrity 
of 
the 
alloy 
deposit 
and/or 
the 
effectiveness of the supplemental treatment. The h 
to white or red corrosion products shall not be 
construed as having any correlation to the actual 
service life of the part. 
3.4.1 For normal production, processes that are in 
statistical process control shall yield parts that are 
capable 
of 
meeting 
the 
same 
salt 
spray 
requirements 
3.4.2 NSS testing shall be performed on a regular 
basis to maintain statistical process control. The 
minimum frequency of corrosion tests for white and 
red corrosion with NSS test h up to and including 
480 h shall be at least once per week. The 
minimum frequency of corrosion tests for red 
corrosion with NSS test h greater than 480 h shall 
be at least once per month. The sample size shall 
be three pieces minimum per lot for each test 
requirement. Use actual part for NSS testing 
unless the use of other parts (surrogate or other 
parts) is agreed by GM Engineering. The supplier 
shall maintain the test results in a file to be 
submitted when required by GM, unless otherwise 
agreed between the purchaser and supplier. 
3.4.3 In case where the supplier does not process 
parts to this specification on a regular basis, the 
minimum test frequency shall be once per 
production lot. 
3.4.4 Actual processing control checks to be made 
and recorded shall be based on chemical 
manufacturer’s instructions. 
3.4.5 Significant surfaces for test evaluation of 
fasteners shall be all exposed surfaces of the 
fastener when installed, including but not limited to 
fastener heads, socket recess, sems washers and 
external surface of nuts. Fastener threads and 
point are excluded unless otherwise specified on 
the drawing. 
3.4.6 Significant surfaces on parts other than 
threaded fasteners shall be all surfaces. Deep 
recesses, such as blind holes and the interior of 
tubes are excluded unless otherwise specified on 
the drawing. 
3.5 Flexibility and Chip Resistance. The coating 
must withstand the normal extension, flexing and 
compression encountered by springs and spring 
clips during product assembly, without evidence of 
flaking or loss of adhesion from the base metal. It 
shall withstand normal handling and storage 
conditions without chipping or flaking. 
3.6 Adhesion Characteristics. Parts coated to 
this specification shall show no evidence of 
blistering or other appearance changes, other than 
a whitish blush, after exposure to humidity testing 
per GMW14729 for 96 h minimum. When tape 
tested per GMW14829 - Method B, 10 minutes 
after removal from humidity test there shall be 
minimum 99.0% of coating (topcoat) retention after 
the tape adhesion test. When removing the tape a 
slight adherence of the coating is permissible, 
since this has no influence on the corrosion 
resistance. In case of small fasteners when the 
surface area of the part is not large enough to run 
the test, steel panels (5 X 50 mm) shall b

GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW3179
 
© Copyright 2007 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
July 2007 
Page 3 of 4
 
the test on a regular basis to maintain a statistical 
process control. 
The test 
results shall be 
maintained on file to be produced when required 
by GM. 
3.7 Hydrogen Embrittlement. All parts heat 
treated or cold worked to a specified core hardness 
greater than HRC 32 or surface hardness HRC 35 
or greater, which are processed through hydrogen 
generating 
process 
shall 
be 
processed 
by 
applicator per SAE/USCAR-5, and tested for de-
embrittlement 
per 
SAE/USCAR-7. 
The 
test 
frequency and sample size for SAE/USCAR-7 test 
shall be per ASTM F1470. 
3.8 Torque-Tension Requirements. For Code G 
and H machine threaded fasteners M6 or larger 
shall be subject to torque-tension monitoring 
through the use of a surrogate M10 x 1.5 test bolts. 
Torque-tension 
shall 
be 
monitored 
per 
SAE/USCAR-11, except tightening speed shall be 
30 ± 3 minute-1 (or: RPM). The six sigma torque 
range value must be within the listed range (see 
Table 1). Torque-tension test is required for initial 
approval of the finish and applicators approval 
submissions. Torque-tension testing shall be part 
of the applicator’s statistical process control to 
insure that the parts meet the specification 
requirements. Test results shall be maintained on 
file to be submitted when required by GM. 
3.9 Coefficient of Friction. For fasteners, which 
are post treated to Code G and H, the coefficient of 
friction of threaded fasteners shall be 0.13 ± 0.03 
(six sigma values) when tested per ISO 16047 with 
the following exceptions: Tightening speed shall be 
30 ± 3 RPM 
Note: Torque-Tension Test and Coefficient of 
Friction Tests are required for the initial approval of 
the finish material. Suppliers/applicators shall also 
run either Torque-tension Test or Coefficient of 
Friction Test for regular quality control. 
3.10 Nylon Patch Application. Apply phosphate 
on fasteners then apply Nylon patch per GM6189P 
on fastener threads. Reapply phosphate coating if 
needed without acid pickling then apply organic 
sealer. Fasteners with nylon patch processed to 
this 
specification 
must 
meet 
the 
corrosion 
resistance requirements on significant surfaces. 
3.11 Recyclability. Parts with this coating shall not 
have any negative effect on recyclyability of the 
parts. 
3.12 Physiological Safety. The coating material 
must not cause any health hazard either to line 
operators or customers. 
 
Table 1: Torque Tension Test Parts and Requirements 
Thread Size 
Surrogate Bolt 
Part Number 
Surrogate Nut 
Part Number 
Test Washer 
Part Number 
Torque in Nm 
Tension in kN 
M10 x 1.5 
11516105 
11516090 
11502644 
40 to 56 
28.3 
Note: Engineering drawings for surrogate fasteners for Torque-Tension Test are available from Global Engineering Document/Information 
Handling Systems (IHS). 
 
Table 2: Thickness and Corrosion Requirements Note 1 
Suffix 
Zinc Phosphate Note 2
in g/m2 
Supplemental Coating 
Salt Spray in h 
Code A 
10 minimum 
Protective Oil Type Compound 
24 
Code B 
10 minimum 
Protective Paint 
72 
Code D Note 3 
10 minimum 
None 
1 
Code G 
10 minimum 
Approved Organic Sealer 
24 
Code H 
10 minimum 
Approved Organic Topcoat 
72 
Code W 
10 minimum 
Protective Wax 
24 
Code Y 
10 minimum 
Other Material (as specified on drawing) 
No requirement 
Note 1: Phosphate coating mass shall be determined by either the caustic soda method or standard chromic acid method on actual parts. 
Note 2: Based on regional availability lower coat weights may be approved by materials engineering. All specified requirements must be 
fulfilled. 
Note 3: Code D, 1 h salt spray requirement to be used as a referee test to verify complete phosphate coverage. This test is required for 
normal Production Part Approval Process (PPAP). 


GMW3179 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2007 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 4 of 4 
July 2007
 
4 Manufacturing Process 
4.1 Cleanability. Parts must be free from die 
lubricants and drawing compounds that will 
adversely affect the phosphate coating. 
Parts which show uncleanable surfaces, not 
affected by normal cleaners, should be noted to 
the manufacturer and special techniques, as 
recommended by the oil supplier, applied and so 
noted. 
5 Rules and Regulations 
5.1 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules 
and Regulations for Material Specifications. 
5.2 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. 
6 Approved Sources 
Engineering qualifications of an approved source is 
required for this specification. Only sources listed 
in the GM Materials File (i.e., GM Supply Power) 
under this specification number have been 
qualified 
by 
engineering 
as 
meeting 
the 
requirements of this specification. 
For 
other 
GM 
locations, 
the 
responsible 
engineering group should be contacted to obtain 
the approved source in that individual country. 
7 Notes 
7.1 Glossary. Not applicable. 
7.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. 
IHS  
 
Information Handling Systems 
NSS 
 
Neutral Salt Spray 
PPAP  
Production Part Approval Process 
8 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, etc., as follows: 
Material per GMW3179 
9 Release and Revisions 
9.1 Release. This standard originated in November 
1999. It was first approved by GMNA in June 2000. 
It was first published in June 2000. 
9.2 Revisions. 
Rev 
Approval 
Date 
Description (Organization) 
C 
SEP 2004 
Codes B & Y added to Table 
in Appendix A // Code D salt 
spray requirement (Table in 
Appendix 
A) 
changed 
to 
referee // Code Reference 
added to Example in Section 
7 // Editorial changes (GMNA) 
D 
MAY 2007 
Revised 
scope 
section, 
Torque-Tension 
test 
frequency, 3.4 and Table 2 
(added Code H and reduced 
salt spray test requirements of 
Code G to 24 h.) 
 
 
