# GMW 8738-2005.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Test Procedure 
QRD 
GMW8738 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proving Ground Corrosion Road Test Specification 
 
 
GM Confidential 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
March 2005 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 71
 
1 Scope 
Note: Nothing in the specification supersedes 
applicable laws and regulations unless specific 
exemption has been obtained. 
Note: In the event of conflict between the English 
and domestic language, the English language shall 
take precedence. 
1.1 Purpose. To subject a test vehicle to an 
environment 
that 
simulates 
various 
global 
environmental conditions capable of promoting 
vehicle corrosion. This specification can be run as 
a stand alone corrosion only road test (refer to 
GMW14101) or can be integrated into Global 
General 
Durability 
Tests 
(e.g. 
GMW15443, 
GMW5531). 
Note: Table E3-4 provides evaluation point details 
regarding integration of global corrosion with global 
durability.   
This specification contains two methods (SH/SM & 
SL) that allow the test to be conducted such that it 
targets one of two specific regional environmental 
classes (i.e. Severe-High/Severe-Moderate and 
Severe-Low). 
Examples 
of 
specific 
target 
environments are listed beneath the associated 
test method. 
• 
Method SH/SM 
o 
SH 
 
Europe 
o 
SM 
 
Asia 
 
North America 
• 
Method SL 
 
Africa 
 
Australia 
 
Central America 
 
Middle East 
 
South America 
By 
applying 
method 
specific 
targets 
and 
requirements as described in this document, all 
regional testing facilities should be capable of 
conducting corrosion testing for vehicles targeted 
for any regional market. 
1.2 Forward. This specification is designed to 
provide some (but not all) chemical and physical 
vehicle 
environments, 
which 
affect 
vehicle 
corrosion performance.  The overall objective of 
this 
specification 
is 
to 
specify 
controlled, 
reproducible test environments. When properly 
used and interpreted, this will provide an accurate 
assessment of a test vehicle’s future field corrosion 
performance relative to one of three regional 
environment classes.  This test specification 
replaces all regional corrosion test procedures and 
is the basis for local site executable procedures.  
This will allow for a comparison of measurements 
within the worldwide GM organization. 
1.2.1 Cross-Reference of Replaced Specifications. 
GMB – Cruz Alta PG 
R.CR.00.180* 
GMNA – Milford PG 
GMN9730* 
GMN3824* 
Holden – Lang Lang PG 
R-15-116* 
GME – Dudenhoffen PG 
GME R-0-6* 
GMUK – Millbrook PG 
R31-15-97* 
Note: The procedures/specifications identified with 
an (*) in the table above have not yet been 
replaced by this procedure. The (*) will be removed 
once 
test 
sites 
have 
completed 
necessary 
correlation/validation 
testing 
and 
documented 
deviations to any core facilities and/or processes 
and the expected impact of any deviations. 
1.3 Applicability. All vehicles intended for use in 
various global environments.  The intended vehicle 
service 
environment 
must 
be 
taken 
into 
consideration when selecting the specific method 
of this test procedure to run. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
SAE J2329 
 


GMW8738 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
GM Confidential 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 71 
March 2005
 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
GMW15356 
GMW14101 
GMW15357 
GMW3001 
GMW15358 
GMW3059 
GMW15359 
 
3 Resources 
3.1 Facilities. 
3.1.1 
Environmental 
Chamber. 
The 
environmental chamber is designed to expose the 
entire vehicle (passenger cars, light duty trucks, 
medium duty trucks and vans) to a high 
temperature and high humidity environment. Test 
vehicles receive environmental exposures to 
supplement the ambient environment and provide 
approximately equivalent test severity throughout 
the calendar year. The chambers should be 
capable of meeting the following requirements: 
• 
Maintaining a temperature between 47 to 51°C 
• 
Maintaining a relative humidity between 96 to 
100% 
• 
One exposure is 4 to 8 hours in duration, 
including chamber ramp time. 
Note: The number of chamber exposures required 
per corrosion evaluation points varies per site 
depending on ambient environmental conditions, 
anticipated duration of the upcoming specified test 
cycles, previous exposure, and the targeted 
corrosion coupon mass loss. Chamber exposures 
should not be conducted back-to-back. Refer to 
Appendix A1 for a representative chamber. 
3.1.2 Salt Splash Road. The Salt Splash Road is 
designed to deposit self-induced salt splash onto 
the vehicle lower body, underbody, chassis and 
underhood areas by low-angle, finely dispersed 
splash, when driving on the even surface, and 
short bursts of high-angle, more dense splash, 
when driving through the splash holes (inversed 
potholes). The facility requirements include: 
• 
Minimum length of 75 meters.   
• 
A 5% (by weight) sodium chloride solution. 
• 
A solution depth between 3 to 7 mm flowing 
the entire length of the facility. 
• 
Minimum 2 splash holes (one on each tire path) 
spaced 3 meters apart. 
• 
Splash holes (inversed potholes) should be 
100 mm deep. 
• 
Placement of splash holes allow for speeds 
between 16 and 48 km/h to be achieved prior 
to entering the splash hole. 
• 
One exposure consists of 4 splash hole inputs 
(one pair at 16 km/h and one pair at 48 km/h) 
and 150 meters of even surface exposure. 
Note: Multiple passes may be required to meet the 
speed and splash hole requirements of this test 
input.  Facility should be verified annually. 
3.1.3 Salt Mist Facility. The Salt Mist facility is 
designed to deposit a 1% salt solution mist over 
the exterior of the vehicle and must meet the 
following requirements: 
• 
Enclosed to prevent air currents from affecting 
salt deposition on exterior surfaces. 
• 
1% (by weight) sodium chloride solution. 
• 
Salt deposition rate of 0.5 to 1.3 mg/cm2 per 
application. 
• 
Nozzles that apply a finely atomized salt mist 
type of application, with number and position of 
nozzles to meet salt deposition target. 
Note: Salt deposition collection process is defined 
in Appendix A3.  Facility should be verified on a 
quarterly basis. 
3.1.4 Car Washes. 
3.1.4.1 Automatic Car Wash [Optional]. The 
Automatic Car Wash subjects a test vehicle to 
operation representative of customer service 
related to exterior vehicle washes using an 
automatic car wash facility. For the purposes of 
this test, the facility is intended for periodic removal 
of corrosion related test contaminants. 
3.1.4.2 Power Wand Wash (Manual) [Required]. 
Power Wand washes should be conducted with 
nozzle pressures within the range of 5000 to 
10 000 kPa. Power Wand washes must be used 
for periodic removal of corrosion related test 
contaminants. 
Note: Frequency of Car Washes can be found in 
paragraph 4.3.1.4. Refer to Appendix A4 for 
representative car washes. 
3.1.5 Gravel Road. The Gravel Road facilities are 
designed to induce damage sites to vehicle 
chassis components and body panels. Surface and 
content of the facilities should be maintained to 
provide consistent exposure. The facilities are 
designed to illustrate the susceptibility of design 
features to stone impingement to create potential 
corrosion 
initiation 
sites. 
The 
facilities’ 
requirements include: 
• 
Stones and may include a combination of 
stone, sand and clay contents. 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARD 
GMW8738
 
GM Confidential 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
March 2005 
Page 3 of 71
 
• 
A combination of moderate-to-high speed 
straight driving exposure as well as turning 
exposure. 
• 
Must be conducted to the minimum gravel road 
requirement based on the local exposure rate. 
Note: An estimation model is included in Appendix 
A5, which can be used to obtain the exposure for 
each individual test site or to match specific 
regional 
requirements 
beyond 
the 
minimum 
specified.  
3.1.6 Rough Roads and Driveway Ramps. 
Rough Roads and Driveway Ramps are used to 
provide structural inputs (vehicle vibration, body 
twist, panel flexing, and panel-to-panel motion) that 
allow for contaminants to penetrate in joints and 
crevices. 
Rough Road requirements: 
• 
25 km of Belgium blocks, distributed evenly 
throughout test. 
• 
10 cm pothole: One pass on each tire path per 
10 cycles. 
• 
12 cm pothole: One pass on each tire path per 
10 cycles. 
Driveway Ramp requirements: 
• 
16 degree incline 
• 
240 left-hand and 240 right-hand maneuvers. 
160 maneuvers to be conducted in forward and 
the remaining 80 maneuvers to be conducted 
in reverse for each direction.  
Note: Refer to Appendix A6 for representative 
rough roads and driveway ramps. 
3.2 Equipment. 
3.2.1 Paint Scribe Equipment. 
3.2.1.1 Scribe Tool. A straight-shank tungsten 
carbide tip, lathe cutting tool or carbide-tipped 
pencil type tools with tip angle of 60 ± 15°. 
3.2.1.2 Template. May be metal or plastic, used as 
a guide to produce straight line scribes of the 
designated length (typically 5 cm). 
3.2.1.3 Continuity Tester. An electrical ohmmeter 
with needle tips should be used to ensure that bare 
metal (electrically conductive) is exposed along 
each entire scribe line. 
3.2.1.4 Millimeter Scale (Ruler). Used to measure 
paint scribe corrosion results to the nearest 
0.5 mm. 
3.2.2 Balance. Used to measure the mass of 
corrosion coupons to the nearest 0.01 g. 
3.2.3 Salt Concentration Meter. An electrical 
meter (Fisher Scientific Meter AR60 or equivalent) 
equipped with a probe to measure chloride ion 
concentration (in ppm). This is used to measure 
the deposition rate for the Salt Mist facility.  A 
salinity meter may be used to measure the percent 
salt concentration of the Salt Mist and Salt Splash 
Road solutions. 
3.2.4 Pit Depth Measuring Device. A point-to-
point micrometer or comparable device used for 
measuring the depth of a corrosion pit. 
3.2.5 Coating Thickness Measuring Device. 
Elcometer Model 256 F/N or comparable device 
which is capable of non-destructively measuring 
the entire anticipated range of coating thicknesses 
over 
both 
ferrous 
and 
non-ferrous 
metallic 
substrates. 
3.2.6 Magnification Device. Microscope capable 
of viewing samples/sections at magnified views of 
at least 10x. 
Note: 
Appendix 
B 
contains 
representative 
photographs of the equipment used. 
3.3 Test Vehicle/Test Piece. 
3.3.1 Corrosion Coupons. Corrosion coupons are 
generally 25.4 mm wide x 50.8 mm long and 
3.18 mm thick pieces of bare SAE 1008-1010 
carbon steel, cold rolled steel per SAE J2329 
CR1E, uncoated, no post coating treatment, which 
are stamped with an alphanumeric identification 
number. 
Coupons 
and 
associated 
mounting 
hardware 
can 
be 
obtained 
from 
Corrosion 
Engineering at the MPG or can be purchased 
locally by the individual test 
site. 
Coupon 
dimensions and associated hardware information 
is provided in Appendix C, Figure C1 and Figure 
C2. 
3.3.2 Standard Paint Panels. Standard paint 
panels are generally 50.8 mm wide x 101.6 mm 
long and 0.79 mm thick cold rolled steel, precoated 
(galvanized) steel, and aluminum panels that are 
laboratory prepared and painted (refer to Appendix 
C, Figure C3 for standard panel illustration). These 
panels 
can 
be 
obtained 
from 
Corrosion 
Engineering at the MPG.  
3.3.3 Salt Pads. Salt pads are made of an 
absorbent polyester fleece fabric with a known 
surface area, which are typically sized to 3.5 
centimeters in diameter. The pads are backed with 
a doubled sided tape to allow for adhesion to 
vehicle components or surfaces (refer to. Appendix 
C, Figure C4 for salt pad illustration)  
3.4 Test Time. 
Calendar time (days):  
refer to GMW14101  


GMW8738 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
GM Confidential 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 4 of 71 
March 2005
 
Test hours:  
refer to GMW14101 
Coordination hours:  
refer to GMW14101 
Note*: To be determined in local site executables 
3.5 Test Required Information. All information 
regarding specific test purposes shall be available 
prior to testing. 
3.6 
Personnel/Skills. 
Proving 
Ground 
test 
personnel to provide driving, vehicle monitoring, 
test facility monitoring and vehicle inspection 
support. 
4 Procedure 
4.1 Preparation. Any temporary exterior shipping 
coatings should be removed and the vehicle 
should be run through the automatic car wash. 
Document any defects or damage to the vehicle or 
its components. Photograph as necessary. 
The following tasks are all completed prior to the 
start of mileage accumulation for the specific test 
procedure(s). 
4.1.1. Vehicle Ballasting Installation. Ballast 
conditions 
should 
be 
maintained 
at 
LVW 
throughout the entire test. The LVW ballast 
condition is described as the vehicle curb weight 
plus driver weight and 45 kg to account for the 
weight of on-board equipment. Vehicle Ballasting 
methods and weights are to be determined by 
each individual site.   
Note:  Ballast conditions of General Durability Test 
Schedule should take precedence over ballast 
conditions spelled out in this procedure when this 
corrosion schedule is combined with General 
Durability. 
4.1.2 
Coupon 
Preparation 
& 
Installation. 
Corrosion coupons are attached at specific 
locations on the vehicle's underbody and exterior. 
4.1.2.1 Coupon Preparation. Thoroughly clean 
each coupon chemically and/or mechanically to 
remove shipping oils and/or corrosion prohibitors. 
After cleaning, accurately weigh each coupon to 
the nearest 0.01 gram to determine its initial mass.  
Attach to coupon bracket and record all pertinent 
coupon information (refer to Appendix D1). 
4.1.2.2 Coupon Installation. Attach underbody 
coupon brackets below the left and right hand B-
pillar/rocker area such that the bracket is parallel to 
the vehicle's longitudinal axis. Coupons must be 
mounted away from the exhaust system or areas 
subject to road contact, and not be exposed to 
direct stone impingement. 
Attach roof coupon brackets to the left and right 
sides such that the bracket is parallel to the 
vehicle's longitudinal axis. 
Note: Refer to Appendix D2 for detailed coupon 
installation and mounting instructions. 
4.1.3 Paint Scribes Installation. Paint scribes are 
made by using the scribe tool to penetrate all 
coatings, leaving a uniform line to the paint and/or 
substrate (i.e., the scribe should penetrate any 
metallic coatings such as galvanized). A continuity 
tester (e.g., ohmmeter) should be used to ensure 
that bare metal is exposed along the entire scribe 
line for metallic substrates. 
4.1.3.1 
Vehicle 
Paint 
Scribe 
Installation. 
Vehicles are typically scribed with a minimum of 12 
sets (one horizontal, one vertical) of scribes (14 for 
a sedan). The vehicle panels scribed are: 
swingmetal, fenders, quarter panels, and roofs. 
4.1.3.2 Paint Standard Panel Scribe Installation. 
The standard paint panels are scribed with a single 
vertical scribe line. 
Note: Refer to Appendix D3 for scribe installation 
instructions. 
4.1.4 Standard Paint Panel Installation. Prior to 
the start of test, standard paint panels are attached 
to the following vehicle areas: hoods, quarter 
panels, and roofs. The panels are backed with a 
doubled sided tape to allow for adhesion to vehicle. 
Note: Refer to Appendix D4 for detailed standard 
paint panel installation instructions. 
4.1.5 Floor Pan Salt Application. Floor pan salt 
application is applicable only to Test Methods A 
and B. Pour 250 milliliters of a 2% (by weight) salt 
solution onto the carpet, under any removable floor 
mats, distributing it over the entire horizontal floor 
pan area with the exception of driver’s side. For 
driver’s side, pull the front carpet (and any loose 
insulation) away from the vehicle's toe pan (under 
dash) and add 250 milliliters of salt solution at that 
point under the carpet. 
Note: Refer to Appendix D5 for salt application 
illustrations. 
4.1.6 
Delivery 
Schedules 
(As 
Required). 
Following start-of-test preparation the vehicle can 
run the Domestic Delivery Schedule (for vehicles 
being land transported) or the Overseas Delivery 
Schedule (for vehicles being ocean transported). 
4.1.6.1 Domestic Delivery. This inspection serves 
as a measure of a vehicle's corrosion performance 
during the time period between transportation to 
the dealership and customer pickup. 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARD 
GMW8738
 
GM Confidential 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
March 2005 
Page 5 of 71
 
When applicable, the vehicle runs the Domestic 
Delivery Schedule. This schedule consists of the 
following: 
• 
One (1) automatic carwash including 
underbody wash (if possible) 
• 
One (1) salt mist exposure 
• 
One (1) salt splash exposure 
• 
One (1) environmental chamber exposure 
• 
One (1) power wand 
wash 
to include 
underbody, underhood, and exterior of vehicle. 
• 
Conduct Domestic Delivery Inspection for red 
rust and white corrosion. 
During this inspection, the vehicle is examined 
thoroughly to detect and identify components 
exhibiting red rust and/or white corrosion. To 
ensure thoroughness, a corrosion inspection form 
may be used for documenting these items. As 
each item of concern is identified, a rating based 
on a GMUTS scale should be given, and a 
photograph should be obtained. 
4.1.6.2 Overseas Delivery. This inspection serves 
as a measure of a vehicle's corrosion performance 
that has been transported overseas to the 
dealership. 
When applicable, the vehicle runs the Overseas 
Delivery Schedule.  This schedule consists of the 
following: 
• 
One 
(1) 
automatic 
carwash 
including 
underbody wash (if possible) 
• 
One (1) salt mist exposure 
• 
One (1) salt splash exposure 
• 
One (1) environmental chamber exposure 
• 
One (1) power wand 
wash 
to include 
underbody, underhood, and exterior of vehicle. 
• 
Conduct site executable corrosion test for 3 
cycles (omitting stone chipping exposure). 
• 
Conduct Overseas Delivery Inspection for red 
rust. 
• 
Make up omitted stone chipping exposure 
during remainder of test cycles. 
• 
After 
completion 
of 
10 
cycles, 
conduct 
Overseas 
Delivery 
Inspection 
for 
white 
corrosion. 
During this inspection, the vehicle is examined 
thoroughly to detect and identify components 
exhibiting red rust and/or white corrosion. To 
ensure thoroughness, a corrosion inspection form 
may be used for documenting these items.  As 
each item of concern is identified, a rating based 
on a GMUTS scale should be given, and a 
photograph should be obtained. 
4.2 Conditions. 
4.2.1 Environmental Conditions. 
4.2.2 Test Conditions. Deviations from the 
requirements of the procedure shall have been 
agreed upon. Such requirements shall be specified 
on component drawings, test certificates, reports, 
etc. 
4.3 Instructions. 
4.3.1 Test Scheduling. "Front loading" of tests 
can lead to corrosion results which are not 
representative of intent. The combination of test 
schedules in any other sequence than what is 
intended 
and 
specified 
in 
the 
parent 
test 
specification, is discouraged. Also at times, several 
different tests are run in sequence to create a 
specific corrosion representation. 
The following test scheduling requirements apply 
to the core corrosion related facilities as described 
in Section 3.1. 
4.3.1.1 Environmental Chamber. 
• 
A minimum of one (1) and a maximum of 
fourteen 
(14) 
environmental 
chamber 
exposures 
per 
10 
test 
cycles 
are 
recommended.  However, if a vehicle is above 
the coupon penetration objective, the use of 
zero (0) environmental chamber exposures is 
permitted. 
• 
All environmental chamber exposures must be 
separated by at least 4 hours, including: 
o 
A minimum of 30 minutes of drive time 
o 
One (1) salt splash road exposure 
o 
One (1) salt mist exposure 
• 
The 
number 
of 
environmental 
chamber 
exposures 
required 
for 
each 
specified 
evaluation point will vary by the ambient 
environment, previous exposure, and number 
of test days. See section 4.3.6.4. 
Note: Fuel tanks containing liquid fuels (gasoline, 
gasohol, alcohol, diesel, etc) may be susceptible to 
evaporatory fumes. Fuel levels must be checked 
before parking vehicles in the chambers. 
4.3.1.2 Salt Splash Road. 
• 
Exposure 
must 
be 
distributed 
evenly 
throughout the test. 
• 
A minimum of 8 km at continuous speed of 80 
km/h or faster on paved roads immediately 
after each exposure. 


GMW8738 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
GM Confidential 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 6 of 71 
March 2005
 
• 
Exposures 
should 
be 
separated 
by 
approximately one (1) hour. 
• 
Method SH/SM:  32 modules per 10 test cycles 
• 
Method SL:  16 modules per 10 test cycles 
4.3.1.3 Salt Mist Facility. 
• 
Exposure 
must 
be 
distributed 
evenly 
throughout the test. 
• 
A minimum of 8 km at continuous speed of 80 
km/h or faster on paved roads immediately 
after each exposure. 
• 
Exposures 
should 
be 
separated 
by 
approximately one (1) hour. 
• 
Method SH/SM:  32 modules per 10 test cycles 
• 
Method SL:  32 modules per 10 test cycles 
4.3.1.4 Car Washes.  
• 
Exterior of vehicle receives five (5) washes per 
10 test cycles. 
• 
Secondary surfaces receive washes at start-of-
test, exterior evaluation point, and end-of-test. 
• 
Underhood receives washes at start-of-test, 
underhood evaluation point, and end-of-test. 
• 
Underbody receives washes at start-of-test, 
underbody evaluation point, and end-of-test. 
 
Note:  Car washes should never immediately 
follow salt exposure.  Car washes must be 
distributed evenly throughout the test.  A car wash 
event should be the last item performed at the end 
of each evaluation point, except at start-of-test. 
 
4.3.1.5 Gravel Road. 
• 
Exposure 
must 
be 
distributed 
evenly 
throughout the test. 
Note: Dirt and/or gravel roads not only determine a 
vehicle's susceptibility to stone chipping, but 
provide mud (when wet) and at times dust (when 
dry) exposure contributing to underbody poultice. 
4.3.1.6 Rough Roads. 
• 
25 km of rough road (Belgium Blocks) should 
be distributed evenly throughout the test. 
• 
One (1) 10 cm pothole module and one (1) 
12.5 cm pothole module per 10 test cycles.  
(See section 3.1.6 for the clairification) 
4.3.1.7 Driveway Ramps. 
• 
Driveway 
ramps 
are 
distributed 
evenly 
throughout the first 5 days of test (See section 
3.1.6 for the cycling definition). 
Note:  Driveway ramp exposures defined in this 
test specification are not required when this 
specification is run in combination with Durability 
Testing. 
 
4.3.2 
Interval 
Inspections. 
Following 
the 
completion of the specified number of test cycles, 
coupon removals/inspections are performed on the 
test vehicle. These inspections serve as a periodic 
measure of a vehicle's corrosion performance. The 
inspection points defined below pertain to running 
Method SH/SM or Method SL as defined in Table 
E3-2 (Single Evaluation Method). If the two are 
combined the interval inspections will be modified 
as shown in Table E3-3 (Combined Evaluation 
Method).  
   
The Single Evaluation Method (refer to Table E3-2) 
includes: 
• 
Coupon Evaluation Point (10 cycles) 
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
Underbody Evaluation Point (15 cycles) 
o 
Cosmetic Inspection (Underbody) 
o 
Scribe Measurements  
o 
Standard and Identified Photographs 
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5  
• 
Underhood Evaluation Point (25 cycles) 
o 
Cosmetic Inspection (Underhood) 
o 
Standard and Identified Photographs 
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
Coupon Evaluation Point (35 cycles) 
o 
Scribe Measurements 
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
Coupon Evaluation Point (45 cycles) 
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
Coupon Evaluation Point (55 cycles) 
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
Exterior/Secondary Surface/Interior Evaluation 
Point (60 Cycles) 
o 
Cosmetic Inspection (Exterior/Secondary 
Surfaces/Interior) 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARD 
GMW8738
 
GM Confidential 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
March 2005 
Page 7 of 71
 
o 
Standard and Identified Photographs 
o 
Scribe Measurements  
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
Coupon Evaluation Point (75 cycles) 
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
Coupon Evaluation Point (90 cycles) 
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
End-of-Test Evaluation (100 cycles) 
o 
Scribe Measurements  
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Functional Intact Inspection for Body 
Panels/Components 
o 
Functional Intact Inspection Photographs  
o 
End-of-test Vehicle Teardown 
o 
Functional Teardown Evaluation for Body 
Panels/Components) 
o 
Functional Teardown Photographs 
 
The Combined Evaluation Method (refer to Table 
E3-3) includes: 
• 
Evaluation Point (10 cycles) 
o 
Cosmetic 
Inspection 
(Underbody 
for 
Method SL) 
o 
Standard and Identified Photographs 
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
Evaluation Point (15 cycles) 
o 
Cosmetic 
Inspection 
(Underbody 
for 
Method SH/SM & Underhood for 
Method SL) 
o 
Standard and Identified Photographs 
o 
Scribe Measurements  
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5  
• 
Evaluation Point (25 cycles) 
o 
Cosmetic 
Inspection 
(Underhood 
for 
Method SH/SM) 
o 
Standard and Identified Photographs 
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
Evaluation Point (35 cycles) 
o 
Cosmetic Inspection (Exterior/Secondary 
Surface/Interior for Method SL) 
o 
Standard and Identified Photographs 
o 
Scribe Measurements 
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
Evaluation Point (45 cycles) 
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
Evaluation Point (55 cycles) 
o 
Functional 
Intact 
Inspection 
of 
Body 
Panels/Components (for Method SL) 
o 
Functional Intact Inspection Photographs 
(for Method SL) 
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
Evaluation Point (60 Cycles) 
o 
Cosmetic Inspection (Exterior/Secondary 
Surface/Interior for Method SH/SM) 
o 
Standard and Identified Photographs 
o 
Scribe Measurements  
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
Evaluation Point (75 cycles) 
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
Evaluation Point (90 cycles) 
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
Interior Salt Application per 4.1.5 
• 
Evaluation Point (100 cycles) 
o 
Functional 
Intact 
Inspection 
of 
Body 
Panels/Components (for Method SH/SM) 
o 
Functional Intact Inspection Photographs 
(for Method SH/SM) 
o 
Scribe Measurements  
o 
Coupon Removal 
o 
End-of-test Vehicle Teardown 
o 
Functional Teardown Evaluation of Body 
Panels/Components) 
o 
Functional Teardown Photographs 
Note:  The corrosion site execuatables for each 
region are specified in GMW14101.  
Note:  Refer to Table E3-4 for the required 
evaluation points when running Global General 
Durability Integrated with Global Corrosion.  


GMW8738 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
GM Confidential 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 8 of 71 
March 2005
 
4.3.3 
Cosmetic 
Inspections. 
Cosmetic 
inspections are conducted such that the specified 
vehicle area(s) is examined thoroughly to detect 
and identify components exhibiting corrosion and 
not meeting minimum VTS requirements. To 
ensure thoroughness, a corrosion inspection form 
is used. As each item is inspected, a GMUTS 
rating is given to that item. The items not meeting 
the 
minimum 
VTS 
requirements 
should 
be 
photographed. 
Note: 
Refer 
to 
GMW15356, 
GMW15357, 
GMW15358, and GMW15359 for rating scale and 
photographic 
examples 
of 
vehicle 
components/areas. 
4.3.4 
Scribe 
Measurements. 
Paint 
scribe 
creepback (vehicle & standard paint panel) is 
measured for undercutting corrosion, which is 
determined by a linear measurement of the 
maximum paint undercutting (blistering) along the 
scribe line. 
Note: Appendix E1 illustrates how the points of 
maximum undercutting are located and measured, 
a form for entering data is shown in and regional 
paint scribe creepback requirements. 
4.3.5 
Photographic 
Documentation. 
Photographs help document cosmetic, perforation 
and functional concerns identified during or at the 
end of test. 
Requirements for photographic documentation are 
as follows: 
• 
Any item identified as not meeting its VTS 
corrosion requirement. 
• 
Standard 
photographs 
as 
indicated 
in 
Appendix E2 should be taken at the end of 
each appropriate cosmetic evaluation. 
4.3.6 Corrosion Coupon Processing. Coupon 
processing involves a process to determine the 
corrosion penetration (mass loss) of the coupons 
due to metal oxidation (rust). The process consists 
of the following steps. 
4.3.6.1 Coupon Removal. At the end of each 
specified evaluation point (after the vehicle wash), 
designated coupons are removed according to the 
instructions contained in Appendix E3. 
4.3.6.2 Coupon Cleaning. Thoroughly clean each 
coupon removed chemically and/or mechanically to 
remove any corrosion products or scale. After 
cleaning, accurately weigh each coupon to the 
nearest 0.01 g to determine its final mass. Record 
final coupon masses on Corrosion Coupon Data 
form in Appendix E3. 
4.3.6.3 Calculating Coupon Penetration. The 
coupon 
penetration 
can 
be 
calculated 
by 
multiplying the mass loss (initial mass – final mass) 
of each coupon by a conversion factor. This 
conversion factor is 45.4 µm/g for the coupons 
specified in Section 3.3.1 as provided by Corrosion 
Engineering MPG. The average penetration is the 
mean value of the two coupons removed for the 
specific mounting location for the specified 
evaluation point. This information is transferred to 
the appropriate Test Conduct: Penetration chart 
found in Appendix E3. 
4.3.6.4 
Estimating 
Required 
Environmental 
Exposures. Environmental chamber exposure and 
time spent in the ambient environment both 
contribute to the overall corrosion rate. The 
contribution of the ambient environment is strongly 
dependent on the time of year (a period of time in 
summer allows more corrosion than does the same 
time in winter – thus the need to supplement the 
vehicle’s exposure with environmental exposures). 
The numbers of environmental exposures are test 
site dependent.  The following factors are required 
in order to accurately calculate/predict number of 
environmental chamber exposures required: 
• 
Cumulative penetration associated with the 
current test cycle point. 
• 
Cumulative penetration specified for the next 
targeted test cycle point. 
• 
Number of days anticipated to reach the next 
targeted test cycle point. 
• 
Month (i.e. ambient environment) that the 
subsequent test cycles will be conducted. 
Note: Each region’s site executable must define 
the 
process 
for 
estimating 
the 
number 
of 
environmental chamber exposures including an 
example calculation. 
4.3.7 General Test Conduct. The following 
general 
guidelines 
should 
be 
used 
when 
conducting corrosion testing: 
• 
Each grouping of test cycles can not be 
completed in less calendar days than the 
specified number of cycles (e.g. 10 test cycles 
can not be completed in less than 10 calendar 
days). 
• 
The progression of vehicle corrosion is 
monitored and determined through the use of 
corrosion coupons. 
Note:  Extended downtimes or test delays may 
impact test results and should be minimized. 
4.3.8 End-of-Test Inspections/Evaluations. In 
order to accurately analyze and evaluate the 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARD 
GMW8738
 
GM Confidential 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
March 2005 
Page 9 of 71
 
perforation resistance and functional corrosion 
performance of vehicle body panels, structural 
members and components, it is necessary to 
teardown 
the 
test 
vehicle 
and 
conduct 
supplemental sectioning/analysis of certain vehicle 
areas and components. 
Functional inspections (intact and teardown) and 
perforation inspections are conducted at the end-
of-test. The functional inspections entail cosmetic 
ratings (GM cosmetic red rust rating scales) of 
targeted components (including safety related 
items) using the form in Appendix E4. Perforation 
inspections entail separation of body panels to 
expose cavity / crevice / hem regions. During these 
inspections, items exhibiting metal loss due to 
corrosion or significant localized corrosion are 
identified for additional analysis, which may include 
one of the following methods: 
• 
Measurement of the level of deterioration by 
evaluating cross-sections with a microscope. 
• 
Thickness loss with a point-to-point micrometer. 
• 
Hot spot ratings, typically for crevice areas of 
swingmetal assemblies.  A hot spot is 
generally defined as the worst 25 x 50 mm 
area within a perforation prone region. 
 
Perforation life estimates for the items can be then 
conducted using the above information.  
5 Rules and Regulations 
5.1 All materials supplied to this specification must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules 
and Regulations for Material Specifications. 
5.2 All materials supplied to this specification must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
“Restricted and Reportable Substances for Parts”. 
6 Safety  
This procedure may involve hazardous materials, 
operations, and equipment. This method does not 
propose to address all the safety problems 
associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the 
user of the method to establish appropriate safety 
and 
health 
practices 
and 
determine 
the 
applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 
7 Coding System 
This material specification shall be referenced in 
other documents, drawings, VTS, CTS, etc. as 
follows: 
Test to GMW8738 
8 Release and Revisions 
8.1 Release. This test specification originated in 
February 2003 and was approved by Global 
Harmonization Corrosion Road Test Team in 
December 2004. It was first published in March 
2005.   
Rev
Approval 
Date 
Description (Organization)
1 
3/07 
Changed methods from A,B, 
and C to SH/SM and SL. 
 
 


GMW8738 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
GM Confidential 
© Copyright 2005 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 10 of 71 
March 2005
 
Appendix A: Facilities 
 
A1 Environmental Chamber 
 
Representative photograph shown below 
 
 
Figure A1-1. Environmental Chamber Illustration 
