# GMW 14458_2006.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Test Method 
Materials 
GMW14458 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Procedure for Copper-Accelerated  
Acetic Acid Salt Spray (CASS) Test 
 
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
May 2006 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 2
 
1 Scope 
This standard establishes equipment and proce-
dure requirements for conducting the Copper-
Accelerated Acetic Acid Salt Spray (CASS) test. 
The CASS test is typically used to evaluate the 
performance of decorative plating applied to metal-
lic and non-metallic substrates. It has also been 
used to evaluate the performance of anodic coat-
ings applied to aluminum. 
Note: Nothing in the specification supersedes ap-
plicable laws and regulations unless specific ex-
emption has been obtained. 
Note: In the event of conflict between the English 
and domestic language, the English language shall 
take precedence. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are ap-
plicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ISO 9227:1990E 
 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
None 
 
3 Test Equipment 
The test apparatus and chamber operation is 
based on the ISO 9227:1990E specification. 
4 Test Material 
See ISO 9227:1990E 
5 Test Method 
See ISO 9227:1990E 
5.1 Summary of Test Method. Not applicable. 
5.2 Test Sample Preparation. Not applicable. 
5.3 Test Procedure. Not applicable. 
6 Evaluation and Rating 
Performance requirements, including corrosion 
evaluation and rating methods, are typically pro-
vided in material or coating specifications or other 
documents such as product drawings. 
7 Report 
7.1 Reference section 12 of ISO 9227:1990E for 
general reporting guidelines. 
7.2 Test conditions shall be recorded on a daily 
basis (weekends and holidays are exceptions). 
The following parameters shall be monitored daily: 
• 
Cabinet temperature 
• 
Bubble tower temperature 
• 
Bubble tower pressure 
• 
Collection rate 
• 
pH of collected solution 
• 
Specific gravity of collected solution 
In addition, the following shall be recorded for each 
prepared solution: 
• 
pH 
• 
Specific gravity 
7.3 Deviations from the requirements of this test 
method shall be documented on component draw-
ings, test certificates, reports, etc. 
8 Safety 
This method may involve hazardous materials, op-
erations, and equipment. This method does not 
propose to address all the safety problems associ-
ated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user 
of the method to establish appropriate safety and 
health practices and determine the applicability of 
regulatory limitations prior to use. 
9 Notes 
9.1 Glossary. Not applicable. 
9.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. 
CASS 
Copper-Accelerated Acetic Acid Salt 
Spray 
10 Coding System 
This test method shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, VTS, CTS, etc. as follows: 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW14458 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 2 
May 2006
 
Test per GMW14458 
11 Release and Revisions 
11.1 Release. This standard originated in Septem-
ber 2005, replacing GM4476P, GME 60207, and 
HN 0104. It was first approved by the Global Cor-
rosion Engineering Team in April 2006. It was first 
published in May 2006. 
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
