# GMW 3359_2004.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Material Specification 
Finish 
GMW3359 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Electrolytically Applied Zinc Rich Coating 
 
 
1 Scope 
This specification covers the basic requirements 
for a corrosion resistant non-electrolytically applied 
zinc rich coating. Besides corrosion protection the 
coating also provides color identification and lubri-
cation by using an additional topcoat with inte-
grated lubricant such as wax or PTFE. 
1.1 Material Description. The material to this 
specification covers organic or inorganic zinc flake 
coating with and without organic topcoat. This 
coating system must be free of hexavalent chro-
mium, with no hexavalent chromium in final prod-
uct per GMW3059 requirements. GMW3034 will be 
used as a referee test. This coating process does 
not generate hydrogen, however, pretreatment 
processes i.e. acid pickling could cause hydrogen 
adsorption. Non-electrolytically applied zinc rich 
coating has high permeability, which allows effu-
sion of hydrogen during curing which might have 
been absorbed during acid pickling. 
1.2 Typical Application. This coating is suitable 
for externally and internally threaded parts (size 
greater than or equal to M6) and non-threaded 
ferrous parts where high level of corrosion protec-
tion and freedom from hydrogen embrittlement are 
required. This is not recommended for the follow-
ing: 
a. Bolts and nuts of sizes < M6 
b. Parts with internal drive recess 
c. Against magnesium surfaces 
d. Washers of all sizes 
e. Parts where electrical conductivity is required 
1.3 Remarks. Use of this coating system on 
threaded surface and/or bearing surface of joints 
could effect the torque-tension relationship. It is 
recommended that a torque-tension study of the 
fastener joint be performed before releasing this 
finish on any new application. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are ap-
plicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
DIN 946 
SAE/USCAR-5 
ISO 1463 
SAE/USCAR-11 
ISO 9227 
VDA621-415  
ISO 11014-1 
 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
9981228 
GM9509P 
9984094 
GM9540P 
9985670 
GME00255 
GM4465P 
GMW3001 
GM7114M 
GMW3034 
GM9071P 
GMW3059 
GM9501P 
 
3 Requirements 
3.1 Appearance. The coating shall have a uniform 
appearance and shall be free from tears, sags, 
pores, cracks, flakes, blisters, rough spots, un-
coated areas and excess coating which affects 
appearance and performance. The coating shall 
not be oily or tacky to the touch. During normal 
handling practice parts shall not leave particulate 
residue on equipment, hands, or gloves. The coat-
ing shall be completely cured and shall have good 
adhesion to base metal. The color unless other-
wise specified shall be silver.  
3.2 Thickness. When applied to threaded prod-
ucts, the coating shall not have an adverse effect 
on normal installation and removal practices. At 
the same time coating thickness shall be adequate 
to provide corrosion resistance performance re-
quirements. 
3.2.1 The maximum thickness of coating which 
may be applied to threads on threaded products is 
limited by the basic thread size (tolerance h or H). 
After coating, parts must gage with appropriate ba-
sic size GO thread gages. Threads may be pro-
duced undersize/oversize (before coating) to ac-
commodate the coating thickness, provided the 
finished product (after coating) meets all specified 
© Copyright 2004 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
October 2004 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 4
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW3359 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright August 2004 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 4 
October 2004
 
mechanical properties. Where mechanical proper-
ties are not specified, undersizing/oversizing is 
subject to approval by the pertinent engineer and 
all undersize/oversize shall be within permissible 
limits as agreed upon. 
3.2.2 The maximum coating thickness under the 
head of bolts and screws shall not exceed 25 µm. 
Supplier shall monitor the thickness and maintain 
the test results in file to be submitted when re-
quired. ISO 1463, microscopic test to measure the 
thickness of coating shall be used as a referee 
test. 
Note: If the part is phosphated, it is recommended 
that the phosphate coating be fine crystalline of 
3 µm maximum coating thickness.  
3.3 Corrosion Resistance. Parts coated to this 
specification when neutral salt spray (NSS) tested 
(ISO 9227) shall show no more than 5 % white 
corrosion products after 144 h and no base metal 
corrosion (red rust) after 480 h exposure on sig-
nificant surfaces. 
3.3.1 For normal production, processes that are in 
statistical process control shall yield parts that are 
capable of meeting the same salt spray require-
ments. The NSS test result is required for PPAP 
submission of parts. 
3.3.2 A periodic NSS test of the parts being proc-
essed on each line running this coating shall be 
conducted using sample size of three pieces mini-
mum per line per shift. 
3.3.3 Actual processing control checks shall be 
made and recorded based on chemical manufac-
turer’s instructions. 
3.3.4 Significant surfaces for test evaluation of 
fasteners shall be all exposed surfaces of the fas-
tener when installed, including but not limited to 
fastener heads, socket recess, sems washers and 
external surface of nuts. Fastener threads and 
point are excluded unless otherwise specified on 
the drawing.. 
3.3.5 Significant surfaces on parts other than 
threaded fasteners shall be all surfaces. deep re-
cesses, such as blind holes and the interior of 
tubes are excluded unless otherwise specified on 
the drawing. 
3.3.6 Temperature Resistance. After heating the 
parts for 3 h at 150 °C (part temperature) the cor-
rosion resistance requirements as specified in 
3.1.4.1 shall still be met. This test requirement is 
only for initial approval of the finish material. 
3.3.7 Accelerated Corrosion. The coating to this 
specification shall be exposed per GM9540P, test 
duration C (40Cycles). After exposure, there shall 
be no red rust on significant surfaces.  
Note: This test shall be run with initial approval of 
chemicals/process and applicator approvals. Ap-
plicators are required to perform this test 
(GM9540P) on processed parts minimum of 2 
times per year. Parts performance records shall be 
retained for minimum 3 years for potential review. 
At a PPAP submission of a part the latest test re-
sults (not older than 6 months) of GM9540P test of 
the applicator can be submitted for approval. The 
9540P test shall be run at the frequency deemed 
appropriate by the applicator, such that a confi-
dence in passing GM9540P requirements is devel-
oped. The twice per year minimum frequency re-
quirement must be met. 
3.3.7.1 VDA 621-415 (Cyclic Corrosion Test). 
The coating to this specification shall be exposed 
to VDA 621- 415 Cyclic Corrosion test After 6 test 
cycles, the screw heads shall exhibit no red rust 
coverage.  
Note. VDA 621-415 Cyclic Corrosion test could be 
used as an alternate test method to GM9540P 
(3.3.7) test by GME . 
3.3.8 Cathodic Protection. The cathodic protec-
tion capability of the coating can be tested by NSS 
test per ISO 9227 with a specimen which is 
scratched to the base metal, the scratch having a 
width of 0.5 mm maximum. After the 96th NSS test 
there shall be no red rust in the area of the scratch. 
This test is re-quired only for initial approval of 
finish material. 
3.4 Flexibility and Chip Resistance. The coating 
must withstand the normal extension, flexing and 
compression encountered by springs and spring 
clips during product assembly, without evidence of 
flaking or loss of adhesion from the base metal. It 
shall withstand normal handling and storage condi-
tions without chipping or flaking. 
3.5 Adhesion Characteristics. Parts coated to 
this specification shall show no evidence of blister-
ing or other appearance changes, other than a 
whitish blush, after exposure to humidity testing 
per GM4465P for 96 h minimum. When tape tested 
per GM9071P, 10 minutes after removal from hu-
midity test there shall be minimum 99.0% of coat-
ing (topcoat) retention after the tape adhesion test 
per GM9071P Method B. In case of small fasten-
ers when the surface area of the part is not large 
enough to run the test will be run on a test sample 
large enough to run the sample shall be test 
treated with the fasteners. 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No repr

GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW3359
 
© Copyright 2004 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
October 2004 
Page 3 of 4
 
3.5.1 Parts shall be tested to meet the adhesion 
requirements for initial approval. This test shall be 
conducted on a periodic basis per the applicator’s 
control plan. 
3.6 Chemical Resistance. Coated parts in the as 
received condition shall be tested against following 
chemicals per the respective test methods shown. 
a. Windshield washer solvent, 9985670 or simi-
lar if approved by engineering (GM9509P) 
b. GM fabric cleaner, 9981228 or similar if ap-
proved by engineering. (GM9509P) 
c. Gasoline (GM9501P). 
There shall be no discoloration of the surface. 
3.7 Hydrogen Embrittlement. All parts heat 
treated or highly cold worked to the specified core 
hardness greater than HRC 32 or surface hard-
ness HRC 35, which are processed through hy-
drogen generating process shall be processed per 
SAE/USCAR-5. 
3.8 Torque-Tension. Metric threaded fasteners 
M6 and larger shall be subject to torque-tension 
mon-itoring through the use of surrogate M10 × 1.5 
test bolts. Ten (10) surrogate bolts shall be proc-
essed with the production parts. A minimum of 10 
bolts per finish line per shift shall be monitored per 
SAE/USCAR-11, except tightening speed shall be 
(30 ± 3) RPM. The six (6) sigma torque range 
value must be within the listed range (Table 2). 
The test results shall be maintained in file to be 
submitted when required. 
Thread 
Size 
Surrogate 
Bolt Part 
Number 
Test Nut 
Part Number
Test Washer 
Part Number
Torque (Nm) 
Tension 
(kN) 
Coefficient 
of Friction 
M10 x 1.5 
11516105 
11516090 
11502644 
48 ± 8 
28.3 
0.13 ± 0.03 
 
3.9 Coefficient of Friction. The coefficient of 
friction of threaded fasteners shall be (0.13 ± 
0.03) (six sigma values) when tested per DIN946 
with the following exceptions: 
a. Test samples (excluding driven fasteners) 
shall be thoroughly cleaned with an appropri-
ate fluid/chemical to remove any grease/oil/ 
wax/other contaminants. 
b. Test clamping force shall be calculated as 
75 % of proof load. 
Note: Torque-Tension Test and Coefficient of 
Friction Tests are required for the initial approval 
of the finish material. Suppliers/Applicators can 
run either Torque-Tension Test or Coefficient of 
Friction Test for quality control. 
3.10 Bearing Surface Characteristics. M10 
heavy hex flange bolts (parts number 11900193 
or equivalent) shall be tested per SAE/USCAR 11 
with the following requirements: Tightening speed 
shall be 30 ± 3 RPM. Test nut shall be 11516090. 
Tension load shall be 24 kN. Test shall be con-
ducted with ELPO coated test washers (11515490 
except unhardened and coated with 9984094, 
medium build ELPO) and aluminum test washers 
(3.0 mm minimum thick, 10.25-10.50 hole size, 
AA6063T52 aluminum). The 6 sigma torque range 
shall lie within 35-52 N·m for 10 samples tested 
for both the ELPO and aluminum bearing sur-
faces. These tests are required for the initial ap-
proval of the finish material. 
3.11 Recyclability. Parts with this coating shall 
not have any negative effect on recyclability of the 
parts. 
3.12 Physiological Safety. The coating material 
must not cause any health hazard either to line 
operators or customers. 
4 Manufacturing Process 
5 Rules and Regulations 
5.1 All materials supplied to this specification shall 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, 
Rules and Regulations of Material Specifica-
tions.  
5.2 All materials supplied to this specification must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3059, Re-
stricted and Reportable Substances for Parts. 
6 Approved Sources 
Supplier to this specification must be approved by 
the respective Specialist Team/TDGs. GMNA 
approved suppliers names are available on the 
online MATSPC system. For other GM locations 
the responsible engineering group should be con-
tacted to obtain the names of approved sources in 
the individual country. 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW3359 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARD
 
7 Coding System 
This material specification shall be referenced in 
other documents, drawings, VTS, CTS, etc. as 
follows: 
GMW3359 or 
GMW3359 Black 
8 Release and Revisions 
8.1 Release. The specification was first approved 
in February 2000 and published in June 2000 by 
the GMW Finished Team. 
8.2 Revisions. 
Rev 
Approval 
Date 
Description (Organization) 
A 
DEC 2000 
Format Revision (GMNA) 
B 
JUN 2004 
Rewrote in new GMW tem-
plate, revised 2.1, 2.2, 3.3.1, 
3.3.4, 3.3.5, 3.3.7, 3.5 and 7 
and added 3.3.8 (GMW Fin-
ished Team) 
 
© Copyright 2004 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 4 of 4 
October 2004 
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Reproduced by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,`,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
