# GMW14872(2009_OK).pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Test Procedure 
Materials 
GMW14872 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cyclic Corrosion Laboratory Test 
 
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
November 2006 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 21
 
1 Scope 
Note: 
Nothing 
in 
the 
standard 
supersedes 
applicable laws and regulations unless specific 
exemption has been obtained. 
Note: In the event of conflict between the English 
and domestic language, the English language shall 
take precedence. 
1.1 Purpose. This procedure describes an 
accelerated laboratory corrosion test method to 
evaluate assemblies and components. The test 
procedure provides a combination of cyclic 
conditions (salt solution, various temperatures, 
humidity, and ambient environment) to accelerate 
metallic corrosion. The procedure is effective for 
evaluating a variety of corrosion mechanisms, such 
as general, galvanic, crevice, etc. The test 
exposure/conditions can be individually tailored to 
achieve any desired level of corrosion exposure. 
Also, synergistic effects due to temperature, 
mechanical and electrical cycling along with other 
stresses can be comprehended by this test. See 
Deviations Section, which after the Appendices, for 
typical modifications. 
1.2 Foreword. The test method is comprised of 
1% (approximate) complex salt mist applications 
coupled with high temperature and high humidity 
and high temperature dry off. One (1) test cycle is 
equal to 24 h. 
A cycle is made up of the daily events or test 
inputs illustrated in Appendix A, Figure A1. A cycle 
normally requires one (1) day to complete. The test 
exposure is dictated by a targeted coupon mass 
loss. A target range for the number of cycles 
necessary to meet the required mass loss is 
provided in Appendix A, Table A1. The coupon 
mass loss values are used to verify that the correct 
amount of corrosion has been produced by the 
test. 
In 
addition 
to 
meeting 
mass 
loss 
requirements, the test must be conducted such 
that the number of cycles required to meet coupon 
mass loss requirements falls within the specified 
range. 
1.3 Applicability. This is a cyclic corrosion test 
(refer to Appendix A, Figure A1) used for validation 
testing 
(cosmetic 
and/or 
functional/general 
durability), development testing, and quality control 
testing, for all global environmental regions (refer 
to GMW8738 for specific Method and applicable 
region). 
The basic exposures for cosmetic corrosion are 
found below in exposures A through C. Exposure 
D is used for functional assessment (refer to 
Appendix A, Table A1). All corrosion mechanisms 
are accelerated at different rates on test. 
Completing the test may not ensure that a 
component passes the functional requirement. A 
comprehensive failure mode analysis must be 
conducted to ensure all failure modes are 
considered and life expectancy is met. 
Exposure A: Underbody Components 
Exposure B: Underhood Components 
Exposure C: 
Exterior 
Components/Panels, 
Secondary Surfaces, and Interior Components 
Exposure D: All Components (Functional) 
Note: Reference the Deviations section of this 
document for optional modifications. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ASTM D610 
ISO 8407 
ASTM D1193 
ISO 12103-1 
ISO 6270-2 
SAE J2329 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
GMW8738 
GMW15357 
GMW14700 
GMW15358 
GMW15282 
GMW15359 
GMW15356 
 
2.3 Additional References. 
SAE 2001-01-0640 
3 Resources 
3.1 
Facilities. 
Laboratory 
(preferably 
with 
controlled ambient conditions). 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/10/2008 02:41:38 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,`,,``,,,```,,`,,,,,,,,```-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW14872 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 21 
November 2006
 
3.2 Equipment. 
3.2.1 Ambient Stage. The apparatus for the 
ambient stage shall have the ability to maintain the 
following 
environmental 
conditions 
and 
per 
Appendix A, Figure A1: 
• 
Temperature: 25 ± 3°C 
• 
Humidity: 45 ± 10% RH 
3.2.2 Humid Stage. The apparatus for the humid 
stage shall have the ability to maintain the 
following 
environmental 
conditions 
and 
per 
Appendix A, Figure A1: 
• 
Temperature: 49 ± 2°C 
• 
Humidity: ~100% RH 
The apparatus shall consist of a fog/environmental 
chamber, suitable water supply conforming to 
ASTM D1193 Type IV, provisions for heating the 
chamber and the necessary means of control.  
3.2.2.1 Water Fog. The apparatus shall include 
provisions for a supply of suitably conditioned 
compressed air and one or more nozzles for fog 
generation. The nozzle or nozzles used for the 
generation of the fog shall be directed or baffled to 
minimize any direct impingement on the test 
samples. 
At least 2 clean fog collectors shall be placed 
within the exposure zone so that no drops of 
solution from the test specimens or any other 
runoff source shall be collected. The collectors 
shall be placed in the proximity of the test 
specimens, one nearest to any nozzle and the 
other farthest from all nozzles. Collection rates for 
each 80 cm2 of horizontal collection area should be 
in the range of 0.75 to 1.5 mL/h (on average) of 
water will be collected in each collector over a 
minimum duration of 16 h. Fog collection rates may 
be adjusted within this range as necessary to meet 
mass loss target rates. 
Suitable collecting devices include glass or plastic 
funnels with the stems inserted through stoppers 
into graduated cylinders. Funnels with a diameter 
of 10 cm have an area of about 80 cm2. Where 
samples cannot be read immediately upon 
completion of the humid stage, closed cell foam 
balls can be used in combination with the 
collections funnels (i.e. foam ball in mouth of 
funnel) to allow moisture to collect while minimizing 
evaporation. 
3.2.2.2 Wet-Bottom. The apparatus shall consist 
of the chamber design as defined in ISO 6270-2. 
During “wet-bottom” generated humidity cycles the 
tester must insure that visible water droplets are 
found on the samples to verify proper wetness. 
3.2.2.3 Steam Generated Humidity. Steam 
generated humidity may be used provided the 
source of water used in generating the steam is 
free 
of 
corrosion 
inhibitors. 
During 
steam 
generated humidity cycles the tester must insure 
that visible water droplets are found on the 
samples to verify proper wetness. 
3.2.3 Dry off Stage. The apparatus for the dry off 
stage shall have the ability to obtain and maintain 
the following environmental conditions: 
• 
 
Temperature: 60 ± 2°C 
• 
 
Humidity: ≤ 30% RH 
The apparatus shall also have sufficient air 
circulation to prevent temperature stratification, 
and also allow thorough drying of the test samples. 
3.2.4 Salt Mist Application. The solution shall be 
sprayed as an atomized mist, and should be 
sufficient to rinse away any salt accumulation left 
from previous sprays. The test samples and 
coupons shall be thoroughly wet/dripping. Suitable 
application techniques include using a plastic 
bottle, or a siphon spray powered by oil-free 
regulated air to spray the test samples and 
coupons. 
Note: The force/impingement from this salt 
application should not remove corrosion or 
damage coatings/paints system of test samples. 
3.2.5 
Corrosion 
Coupons 
and 
Mounting 
Hardware. Coupons serve to monitor the average 
general bare steel corrosion produced by the test 
environment. Coupons consist of 25.4 mm wide x 
50.8 mm long x 3.18 mm thick pieces of bare 
SAE 1008-1010 carbon steel, cold rolled steel per 
SAE J2329 CR1E, uncoated, no post coating 
treatment, 
which 
are 
stamped 
with 
an 
alphanumeric identification number (reference 
Appendix A, Figure A2). 
The coupons shall be secured to an aluminum or 
nonmetallic coupon rack with fasteners as shown 
in Appendix A, Figure A3 and Figure A4. The bolt, 
nut and washers shall be made from a non-black 
plastic material, preferably nylon. Appendix A, 
Figure A4 shows a completed coupon rack 
configuration. 
The 
number 
of 
coupons 
recommended for different test durations are 
shown in Appendix A, Table A2. 
3.3 Test Vehicle/Test Piece. Test samples shall 
be representative of production intent. Sample size 
shall be consistent with durability requirements 
determined by the appropriate Material / Corrosion 
Engineering department. 
3.4 Test Time. 
Calendar time: 
See Appendix A, Table A1 
Test hours: 
See Appendix A, Table A1 
Coordination hours: 
See Appendix A, Table A1 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/10/2008 02:41:38 MDT
No reproduction or netw

GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14872
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
November 2006 
Page 3 of 21
 
4 Procedure 
4.1 Preparation. 
4.1.1 Salt Solution Preparation. The complex salt 
solution in percent (%) by mass shall be as 
specified below: 
• 
Sodium Chloride (NaCl): 0.9% 
• 
Calcium Chloride (CaCl2): 0.1% 
• 
Sodium Bicarbonate (NaHCO3): 0.075% 
Sodium Chloride must be reagent grade or Morton 
Culinox 999 Food grade. Calcium Chloride must be 
reagent grade. Sodium Bicarbonate must be 
reagent grade (e.g., Arm & Hammer Baking Soda 
or comparable product is acceptable). Water must 
meet ASTM D1193 Type IV requirements. 
Note: Either CaCl2 or NaHCO3 material must be 
dissolved separately in water and added to the 
solution of the other materials. If all solid materials 
are added dry an insoluble precipitate may result. 
Salt solution makeup calculator for the appropriate 
amount of sodium chloride, calcium chloride, 
sodium bicarbonate, and water examples are 
shown in Appendix B, Figures B1 through B3. 
Additional contaminants (dust, grit, poultice, and 
exhaust condensate) called out in the Deviation 
Section are defined in Appendix C through 
Appendix F. 
4.1.2 Coupon Preparation. Corrosion coupons 
should be cleaned with methanol or acetone 
solution and accurately weighed prior to use. The 
weight, in grams (g), shall be recorded and 
retained for future reference. If coupons are not 
used immediately they should be stored such that 
they are corrosion free at the start of test. 
It is critical that all forming or preservation 
oils/lubes be removed prior to exposure to allow for 
general/uniform corrosion of the coupon. This 
process can be aided by using a commercial grade 
degreaser prior to methanol or acetone clean. 
4.1.3 Coupon Rack Preparation. Prior to start of 
test; prepare the coupon rack with sufficient 
coupons to monitor the test. The number of 
coupons recommended for different test durations 
are shown in Appendix A, Table A2. 
The exact location of each coupon on the rack 
shall be identified and recorded using the pre-
stamped numbers for reference as illustrated in 
Appendix A, Figure A4. 
Allow a minimum 5 mm spacing between the 
coupons and the rack surface. All coupons shall be 
secured vertically with no more than 15 degree 
deviation from vertical and must not contact each 
other. 
The coupon rack shall be placed in the general 
vicinity of the test samples being tested, such that 
the coupons receive the same environmental 
exposure as the test samples. 
Note: Coupons are test monitoring devices and 
should not be exposed to additional stresses which 
may be added to the base test (i.e., gravelometer, 
dust, grit, exhaust condensate, thermal exposure, 
etc.) 
4.2 Conditions. 
4.2.1 Environmental Conditions. 
4.2.2 Test Conditions. Deviations from the 
requirements of the procedure shall have been 
agreed upon by test requestor. Such requirements 
shall 
be 
specified 
on 
part 
drawings, 
test 
certificates, reports, etc. 
4.3 Instructions. See Appendix A, Figure A1 
(Flow Diagram) for the steps that comprise the test 
method. Repeat the cycle daily, as necessary, until 
the test exposure requirements are met. At the 
option of the test requester, the test can be 
continued throughout weekends to decrease the 
over all test time provided that the number of 
cycles and mass loss requirements are met. 
4.3.1 For each salt mist application, use the spray 
apparatus to mist the samples and coupons until 
all areas are thoroughly wet/dripping. The quantity 
of spray applied should be sufficient to visibly rinse 
away salt accumulation left from previous sprays. 
The first salt mist application occurs at the 
beginning of the ambient stage. Each subsequent 
salt mist application should occur approximately an 
hour and a half after the previous application in 
order to allow adequate time for test samples to 
dry. 
Note: If gravelometer exposure is required, test 
samples (not coupons) may be exposed to 
gravelometer testing per GMW14700 before or 
during test exposure. 
4.4 Test Acceleration. Humidity ramp times 
between the ambient and wet condition and 
between the wet and dry conditions can have a 
significant effect on test acceleration (this is 
because corrosion rates are highest during these 
transition periods). Typically, the time from ambient 
to the wet condition should be approximately 1 h 
and the transition time between wet and dry 
conditions should be approximately 3 h. These 
ramp times can be adjusted to increase or 
decrease test acceleration in order to meet 
targeted mass loss. Test acceleration can be 
optimized and tracked by using standard corrosion 
coupons as monitoring devices. Ramp time is to be 
included as part of the specified exposure period. 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/10/2008 02:41:38 MDT
No reproduction or 

GMW14872 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 4 of 21 
November 2006
 
4.5 Test Monitoring. Corrosion coupons shall be 
removed and analyzed after a predetermined 
number of cycles (typically 5) throughout the test to 
monitor the corrosion (less frequent for longer 
exposures that is >40 cycles). To analyze coupons 
remove 1 coupon from each end of the rack, clean 
to prepare for weighing, and an average mass loss 
determination. 
4.5.1 Before weighing, clean the coupons using a 
mild sand/bead blast (80 ± 10 psi) process to 
remove all corrosion by-products from the coupon 
surface. Wipe the coupons free of grit and weigh to 
determine the coupon mass loss using the formula: 
Mass Loss = (Initial Mass) – (End-of-Exposure 
Mass). 
Note: Although not preferred corrosion by-product 
removal by chemical cleaning per ISO 8407 may 
be used. 
4.5.2 Compare the actual mass loss to the targeted 
value. Refer to Appendix A, Table A1 for targeted 
mass loss values, in grams, for various test 
exposures as a function of the coupon's original 
thickness. Testing should be conducted as 
necessary to achieve necessary coupon mass 
loss. The number of cycles required to achieve 
required mass loss must meet that defined in 
Appendix A, Table A1. 
Coupon mass loss targets corresponding to 
incremental test exposures are not included in 
Appendix A, Table A1. The processes defined in 
section 4.5 “Test Monitoring” and section 5.3.1 
“Coupons” may be used to check test progress and 
assure that the test is being run correctly. 
Corrosion mass loss should increase consistently 
between documented exposure values. If the 
actual mass loss does not fall within the targeted 
range for the specified exposure(s) as listed in 
Table A1 then the test should be repeated. Also, 
the reasons why the test did not fall within the 
target range should be investigated and corrected 
before resuming the test. 
4.6 Cosmetic Corrosion Inspection. The test 
sample(s) shall be inspected for corrosion by 
means of GMW15356, GMW15357, GMW15358, 
GMW15359, and photographed (as necessary) at 
the end of predetermined cycles. Samples may be 
rated in terms of % corroded area per ASTM D610 
or some other comparable standard if agreed upon 
by test requestor and tester. If test samples 
containing plastic materials are being tested any 
discoloration or degradation and/or adhesive bond 
failure (delamination) shall be noted and recorded. 
If scribing is required, on test samples, follow the 
method described in GMW15282. This method 
includes measurement of corrosion creepback 
from a scribe line. This method should be used 
when reporting test results unless stated otherwise 
on drawings or agreed upon by test requestor and 
tester. 
4.7 End-of-Test Functional Inspection. At the 
end of test the samples shall be rinsed with fresh 
tap water and allowed to dry before evaluating. 
End-of-test 
functional 
analysis 
may 
involve 
sectioning, microscopic analysis and/or removal of 
corrosion product to determine degree and extent 
of base metal attack. 
5 Data 
5.1 Calculations. 
• 
Salt solution (reference Appendix B). 
• 
Coupon mass loss (reference section 4.5.1 
under 4.5 “Test Monitoring”). 
5.2 Interpretation of Results. Acceptance criteria 
shall 
be 
specified 
within 
engineering 
documentation 
which 
includes: 
Material 
Specifications, Subsytem Technical Specifications, 
Component Technical Specifications, and Part 
Drawings. 
5.3 Test Documentation. 
5.3.1 Coupons. Coupon mass loss values are to 
be recorded after each set of a predetermined 
number of cycles (typically 5) and at the 
completion of the desired test exposures. Data 
may be plotted and used to evaluate conformance 
to mass loss requirements using charts like the 
examples found in Appendix G, Figure G1 and 
Figure G2. 
5.3.2 Test Samples. Test reports should include 
the sample data and test results, number of cycles 
run, coupon mass loss data and any deviations to 
the test. 
5.3.3 Test Equipment. The following information 
shall be recorded and available upon request for 
each cabinet/exposure location used to conduct 
test conditions as appropriate. 
5.3.3.1 Cabinet Manufacturer/Model 
5.3.3.2 Humidity Profile 
5.3.3.3 Temperature Profile  
5.3.3.4 Humidification Process 
5.3.3.5 Collection Rate 
5.3.3.6 De-humidification Process 
5.3.3.7 Heating Process 
5.3.3.8 Cooling Process 
5.3.3.9 Air Circulation Process 
5.3.3.10 Capacity 
5.3.3.11 Size 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/10/2008 02:41:38 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,`,,``,,,```,,`,,,,,,,,```-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14872
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
November 2006 
Page 5 of 21
 
5.3.3.12 Calibration Process 
5.3.3.13 Frequency of Calibration 
5.3.3.14 Ramp Time Between Stages 
If a recorder is in use, cycle profiles should be 
submitted with test sample data. If a recorder is not 
in use, written documentation should be provided 
indicating typical steady state conditions and the 
ramp times between steady state conditions. 
Note: Form for Test Equipment documentation can 
be found in Appendix H. If information does not 
change from test to test, documentation of a 
representative test will be acceptable. All the 
specified information will be required if test results 
are in question. 
5.3.4. Test Solution. The following information 
shall be recorded and available upon request. 
5.3.4.1 Frequency of Salt Solution Changes 
5.3.4.2 Method of Salt Application 
5.3.4.3 pH of Solution 
5.3.4.4 Salinity or Conductivity of Solution 
5.3.4.5 Solution Constituents 
Note: The form for Test Solution documentation 
can be found in Appendix I. All specified 
information will be required if test results are in 
question. 
6 Safety 
This procedure may involve hazardous materials, 
operations, and equipment. This method does not 
propose to address all the safety problems 
associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the 
user of the method to establish appropriate safety 
and 
health 
practices 
and 
determine 
the 
applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 
7 Notes 
7.1 Glossary. Not Applicable. 
7.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. 
EXT 
 
Exterior 
H/PDS  
High & protected from direct splash 
INT  
 
Interior 
I/WS 
 
Inside the weather strip 
O/WS  
Outside the weather strip 
s 
 
 
Salt sprays 
SH  
 
Severe – High 
SL  
 
Severe – Low 
SM  
 
Severe – Moderate 
SS  
 
Secondary Surface 
UB  
 
Underbody 
UH  
 
Underhood 
8 Coding System 
This test procedure shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, VTS, CTS, etc. as follows: 
Test to GMW14872, vehicle area including 
mounting 
location, 
method, 
cosmetic 
and/or 
functional test exposure, (A, B, C or D) or where 
the drawing or material specification calls for a 
specific deviation, this deviation should specify an 
associated mass loss. 
Example 
1: 
For 
an 
underbody 
component 
pertaining to a global region specified in Method 
SL cosmetic and functional 
Test to GMW14872, UB, All, 4s, Method SL, 
Exposures A & D 
Example 2: For a low, mid, or high underhood 
component pertaining to a global region specified 
in Method SH/SM cosmetic and functional 
Test to GMW14872, UH, All, 4s, Method SH/SM, 
Exposures B & D 
Example 3: For a high mounted and protected from 
direct splash underhood component pertaining to a 
global region specified in Method SL cosmetic and 
functional 
Test to GMW14872, UH, High P/DS, 1s, Method 
SL, Exposures B & D. 
Example 4: For a door hinge mounted outside the 
weatherstrip in a global region specified in Method 
SL cosmetic and functional. 
Test to GMW14872, SS O/S, Method SL, Deviation 
Option #1, Duration 70 cycles. 
In addition, the criteria for making pass/fail 
determinations must be specified (i.e., VTS 
Paragraph #, etc). 
9 Release and Revisions 
9.1 Release. This standard originated in November 
2005, replacing GM9540P. It was approved by the 
Global 
Laboratory 
Corrosion 
Testing 
Harmonization Team in August 2006. It was first 
published in November 2006. 
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/10/2008 02:41:38 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,`,,``,,,```,,`,,,,,,,,```-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW14872 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 6 of 21 
November 2006
Appendix A 
 
 
Figure A1: GMW14872 Flow Diagram 
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/10/2008 02:41:38 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,`,,``,,,```,,`,,,,,,,,```-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14872
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
November 2006 
Page 7 of 21
 
Table A1: GMW14872 Mass Loss Targets (3.18 mm thick coupons) – Cosmetic and Functional 
Test Exposure  
Vehicle 
Area 
Mounting 
Location of 
Component 
Number of 
Salt Sprays 
Method
Note 1 
Cosmetic Mass Loss 
(Penetration
Note 2) Requirements
Note 3 
, and # of Test Cycles  
Functional Mass Loss 
Requirements
Note 3,4 and # of Test 
Cycles  
Method SH/SM 
Exposure A 
0.84 ± 0.14 grams (38 ± 6 μm) 
6 ± 1 cycles 
Exposure D 
9.47 ± 0.38 grams (430 ± 17 μm) 
68 ± 7 cycles 
Underbody 
(UB) 
All 
4 per cycle 
Method SL 
Exposure A 
0.42 ± 0.07 grams (19 ± 3 μm) 
3 ± 1 cycles 
Exposure D 
4.74 ± 0.19 grams (215 ± 9 μm) 
34 ± 4 cycles 
Method SH/SM 
Exposure B 
1.32 ± 0.13 grams (60 ± 6 μm) 
9 ± 1 cycles 
Exposure D 
7.11 ± 0.28 grams (323 ± 13 μm) 
51 ± 6 cycles 
All 
4 per cycle 
Method SL 
Exposure B 
0.66 ± 0.07 grams (30 ± 3 μm) 
5 ± 1 cycles 
Exposure D 
3.55 ± 0.14 grams (161 ± 6 μm) 
25 ± 3 cycles 
Method SH/SM 
Exposure B 
0.88 ± 0.09 grams (40 ± 4 μm) 
11 + 2 cycles 
Exposure D 
4.74 ± 0.19 grams (215 ± 8 μm) 
59 ± 6 cycles 
Underhood 
(UH) 
High & 
Protected 
from Direct 
Splash 
1 per cycle 
Method SL 
Exposure B 
0.44 ± 0.04 grams (20 ± 2 μm) 
6 ± 1 cycles 
Exposure D 
2.38 ± 0.10 grams (108 ± 4 μm) 
30 ± 3 cycles 
Exterior 
(EXT) 
All 
4 per cycle 
Method 
SH/SM/SL 
Exposure C 
3.94 ± 0.28 grams (179 ± 13 μm) 
28 ± 3 cycles 
Exposure D 
7.23 ± 0.29 grams (328 ± 13 μm) 
52 + 6 cycles 
Outside the 
Weather 
Strip 
1 per cycle 
Method 
SH/SM/SL 
Exposure C 
1.98 ± 0.14 grams (90 ± 6 μm) 
25 ± 3 cycles 
Exposure D 
3.61 ± 0.14 grams (164 ± 7 μm) 
45 ± 5 cycles 
Secondary 
Surface 
(SS) 
Inside the 
Weather 
Strip 
1 per 5 
cycles
5 
Method 
SH/SM/SL 
Exposure C 
0.40 ± 0.03 grams (18 ± 1 μm) 
7 ± 1 cycles 
Exposure D 
0.73 ± 0.03 grams (33 ± 1 μm) 
12 ± 2 cycles 
Low 
1 per 5 
cycles
Note 5 
Method 
SH/SM/SL 
Exposure C 
1.30 ± 0.09 grams (59 ± 4 μm) 
22 ± 3 cycles 
Exposure D 
2.38 ± 0.10 grams (108 ± 4 μm)  
40 ± 4 cycles 
Interior 
(INT) 
Mid, High 
1 per 5 
cycles
Note 5 
Method 
SH/SM/SL 
Exposure C 
0.40 ± 0.03 grams (18 ± 1 μm) 
7 ± 1 cycles 
Exposure D 
0.73 ± 0.03 grams (33 ± 1 μm) 
12 ± 2 cycles 
Note 1: Refer to GMW8738 for applicable linkage of global region to test Method SH, SM or SL. 
Note 2: Penetration factor used was 45.4. Refer to GMW8738 for actual calculation 
Note 3: In addition to mass loss requirements, the test must be conducted such that the number of cycles falls within the specified range. 
Note 4: Exposure D is used for functional assessment. All corrosion mechanisms are accelerated at different rates on test. Completing the 
test may not ensure that a component passes the functional requirement. A comprehensive failure mode analysis must be 
conducted to ensure all failure modes are considered and life expectancy is met.  
Note 5: Number of salt sprays for 1 per 5 cycles should be sprayed at the start-of-test and every 5 cycles there after. 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/10/2008 02:41:38 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,`,,``,,,```,,`,,,,,,,,```-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW14872 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 8 of 21 
November 2006
 
Table A2: Number of Coupons Recommended 
Number of Required Cycles 
Number of Coupons 
Removal Frequency 
< 10 cycles 
6 
5 Cycles 
11 to 20 cycles 
10 
5 Cycles 
21 to 30 cycles 
14 
5 Cycles 
31 to 40 cycles 
18 
5 Cycles 
41 to 80 cycles 
18Note 1 
10 Cycles 
Note 1: Additional coupons may be required if earlier evaluations must be conducted. 
 
 
Figure A2: Coupon Schematic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure A3: Coupon Hardware Illustration 
 
Nylon bolts and washers suitable are as follows: 
Bolt: 0.6  to 50.8 cm x 1.5 cm (¼ to 20 in x ½ in) hex 
head cap screw, solid nylon
        0.6  to 50.8 cm x 1.27 cm (¼ to 20 in x 3/7 in) 
hex head cap screw, solid nylon 
Washer: 1.5 cm x .65 cm x 0.5 cm (½ in x 0.257 in x 
0.197 in) thick flat washers
Nut: 0.6  to 50.8 cm (¼ to 20 in) nut, solid nylon 
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/10/2008 02:41:38 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,`,,``,,,```,,`,,,,,,,,```-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14872
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
November 2006 
Page 9 of 21
 
Figure A4: Coupon Bracket Assembly Illustration 
 
Suitable coupons and/or coupon rack assemblies can be purchased from the following: 
 
ACT Test Panels 
National Exposure Testing 
273 Industrial Drive 
3545 Silica Road 
P.O. Box 735 
Suite E 
Hillsdale, Michigan 49242 
Sylvania, Ohio 43560 
(517) 439-1485 
(419) 841-1065 
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/10/2008 02:41:38 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,`,,``,,,```,,`,,,,,,,,```-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW14872 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 10 of 21 
November 2006
Appendix B 
 
Figure B1: GMW14872 Salt Solution Calculator for Anhydrous (X=0) Calcium Chloride Based on a Five 
Gallon Batch Solution 
 
Figure B2: GMW14872 Salt Solution Calculator for One Hydrate (X=1) Calcium Chloride Based on a 
Five Gallon Batch Solution 
 
Figure B3: GMW14872 Salt Solution Calculator for Dihydrate (X=2) Calcium Chloride Based on a Five 
Gallon Batch Solution 
 
Note: An electronic copy can be obtained upon request, please contact GMNA Corrosion Engineering. 
 
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/10/2008 02:41:38 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,`,,``,,,```,,`,,,,,,,,```-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
