# GMW14797Oct2009.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
General Specification 
Overall Vehicle 
GMW14797 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Painted Plastic Parts Performance Requirements 
 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
October 2009 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 24 
 
1 Introduction 
Note: 
Nothing in this standard supersedes 
applicable laws and regulations. 
Note: In the event of conflict between the English 
and domestic language, the English language shall 
take precedence. 
1.1 Scope. This standard covers organic surface 
coatings on plastic parts and components used for 
automotive exterior and interior applications on 
motor vehicles, and also for painted components 
within the engine compartment. 
1.2 Mission/Theme. This specification details the 
performance requirements for applied paints on 
plastic parts, used for either exterior, interior or 
engine 
compartment 
applications 
on 
motor 
vehicles. 
1.2.1 This specification covers the laboratory test 
requirements for GM Approved Paint on Parts 
(APOPS), Production Part Approval Process 
(PPAP) approval, 
processing conditions and 
routine quality control for exterior and interior 
plastic painted automobile components. 
1.2.2 This specification applies only to substrate 
and paint related materials that have been qualified 
and approved to the appropriate GM specifications. 
The substrate must be approved to the appropriate 
GM 
material 
specification. 
For 
previously 
unpainted substrates, substrate paintability may be 
demonstrated per GMW16172 (plaques or parts) 
or via APOPS testing to Table A1, including 
weathering of parts per Table A1 Note 5, for 
exterior applications, or Table A4 for interior 
applications. GMW3005 requirements must be met 
for approval to the appropriate, e.g., 998XXXX 
paint 
specification 
for 
exterior 
applications. 
GMW14867 must be met for the appropriate, e.g., 
GMWXXXX paint substrate specific specification 
for interior paints. 
1.3 Classification. Not applicable. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ASTM D3763 
ISO 20433  
ISO 105-A02 
ISO/IEC 17025 
ISO 2808 
ISO/TS 16949 
ISO 2813 
SAE J1976 
ISO 6603-2 
SAE J2527 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
9984808 
GME60413 
9984810 
GMW3001 
9984815 
GMW3005 
9984824 
GMW14124 
9984836 
GMW14333 
9984861 
GMW14445 
9984862 
GMW14698 
9984901 
GMW14700 
9984904 
GMW14701 
9984905 
GMW14704 
B 040 0246 
GMW14729 
B 040 0540 
GMW14829 
GM4389M 
GMW14867 
GM9233P 
GMW15777 
GM9503P 
GMW15891 
GM9531P 
GMW15919 
GM9620M 
GMW16133 
GM9904P 
GMW16172 
GME60412 
L 000 555 
GMW3013 
L 000 556 
GMW3059 
 
3 Test Preparation and Evaluation 
3.1 Resources. Not applicable. 
3.1.1 Calibration. The test facilities and equipment 
shall be in good working order and shall have a 
valid calibration label. 
3.1.2 Alternatives. Alternative test facilities and 
equipment shall also be used. However, all 
measuring variables as specified in this standard 
shall be determined correctly with respect to their 
physical 
definition. 
The 
test 
facilities 
and 
equipment shall be in good working order and shall 
have a valid calibration label. 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
October 2009 
Page 2 of 24 
 
3.1.3 Facilities. 
3.1.3.1 For APOPS Testing. For a new supplier to 
GM, all testing shall be performed in an accredited 
laboratory. 
Laboratory 
accreditations 
to 
ISO/IEC 17025 
are 
acceptable. 
For 
data 
submissions from a current supplier, if another 
laboratory is planned to be used that is not 
ISO/IEC 17025 approved, before testing, it is the 
responsibility of the supplier submitting the 
technology to receive approval to use the 
laboratory 
from 
the 
GM 
Engineer 
who 
is 
responsible for approving the specific technology. 
Generally, the unaccredited laboratory should be in 
a facility that has a Quality System approval to 
ISO/TS 16949. 
3.1.3.2 For PPAP Testing. Tests performed 
outside of GM are to use a lab from an 
organization that is either third party registered to 
ISO/TS 16949 or has laboratory accreditations to 
ISO/IEC 17025. 
3.1.3.3 All testing is the responsibility of the GM 
supplier who applies paint to the parts in question. 
3.1.4 Equipment. Not applicable. 
3.1.5 Test Vehicle/Test Piece. Not applicable. 
3.1.6 Test Time. Not applicable. 
3.1.7 Test Required Information. Not applicable. 
3.1.8 Personnel/Skills. Not applicable. 
3.2 Preparation. 
3.2.1 Bake. All bakes must comply with GM Paint 
approved bake charts for each specific product. 
GM Paint approved bake charts are those that 
have an approval signature of the responsible 
engineer at the bottom. These bake charts may be 
obtained from the paint suppliers. 
3.2.1.1 
For 
Exterior 
Grade 
Parts. 
All 
Thermoplastic Polyolefin (TPO) substrates must be 
processed using either any of the following three 
options: 
Option 1: High-bake adhesion promoter + topcoat 
systems. The adhesion promoter (e.g., 9984808, 
9984810) is applied wet on wet and co-baked with 
an approved topcoat high bake system (e.g., 
9984836, 9984861, 9984862) in accordance with 
the GM Paint approved bake chart. 
Option 2: Low-bake adhesion promoter + topcoat 
systems. The adhesion promoter (e.g., 9984905) is 
applied wet on wet and co-baked with an approved 
topcoat low bake system (e.g., 9984904, 9984901) 
in accordance with the GM Paint approved bake 
chart. 
Option 3: Flame treated+topcoat systems, low 
bake or Flame treated+primer+topcoat systems, 
low bake. Flame treated (GMW16133) and bake 
with an approved topcoat (e.g., 9984836, 9984861, 
9984862, 9984901, 9984904) or with an approved 
primer (e.g., 9984815, 9984824) plus topcoat (e.g., 
9984836, 9984861, 9984862, 9984901, 9984904). 
3.2.1.2 Interior paint bake charts are stored in 
MATSPC or held by the regional Materials 
Engineer responsible for interior paint raw material 
approval. 
3.2.2 Additional Requirements for Exterior. 
3.2.2.1 Reprocessing. Defined as running a 
previously finished part through the original 
equipment 
manufacturer 
Original 
Equipment 
Manufacturer (OEM) process. The reprocessing 
must agree with the Material Data Sheet and 
recommendation from the Paint Material Supplier. 
The following must be followed at a minimum for all 
part reprocesses. 
3.2.2.1.1 All reprocessed parts must meet all the 
requirements stated in this specification and all 
other specifications and requirements listed on the 
engineering drawing. 
3.2.2.1.2 Sanding to substrate is not allowed. 
Sanding is allowed on the topcoat system to 
remove 
surface 
imperfections 
or 
defects. 
Documentation of sanding process is required. 
3.2.2.1.3 Clearcoat over Clearcoat and Adhesion 
Promoter over Adhesion Promoter is not permitted. 
3.2.2.1.4 Topcoats and color keyed or color 
specific primers are to be repaired with the same 
OEM or two-tone color only, specified by the GM 
color code number, for example WA6502 (i.e., 
white over white, red over red, etc.) 
3.2.2.1.5 The maximum number of reprocess 
applications is two for primer and two for topcoat 
as given in Table 1. 
For GME and GMHA, multiple coatings are defined 
for maximum one single over-painting of the 
complete paint system. Multiple coatings are not 
permissible for original equipment parts and parts 
for after sales service. 
Exception: 
Multiple 
coatings 
for 
original 
equipment parts are only permissible, if the 
coloring is acceptable. No adverse changes are 
permissible. 
 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
October 2009 
Page 3 of 24 
 
Table 1: Reprocessing Requirements 
Paint Layer 
Number of OEM 
Applications 
Maximum Reprocess 
Applications 
Maximum Number 
of Bakes 
Max Total Film Build (of 
Given Paint Layer) 
Primer 
1 
2 
3 
100  (4 mil) 
Topcoat 
1 
2 
3 
225  (9 mil) 
Total 
2 
4 
6 
325  (13 mil) 
 
3.2.2.1.6 A part may see a total of six heat cycles 
in paint and a total of seven heat cycles including 
post cure. 
3.2.2.1.7 All film builds must meet the minimum 
requirements specified on the engineering drawing 
and the maximum requirements given in Table 2 
unless otherwise specified. 
 
Table 2: Maximum Film Builds 
Layer 
Maximum Film Build 
Primer 
100  (4 mil) 
Topcoat 
225  (9 mil) 
 
3.2.2.2 Spot repair is not a GM approved process 
for painted parts (except for sheet molding 
compound (SMC)). 
3.2.2.2.1 Unless otherwise agreed, SMC must be 
repaired to meet the requirements in GM9233P. 
3.2.3 For Interior Reprocessing. Defined as 
running a previously finished part through the 
original equipment manufacturer (OEM) process. 
The reprocessing must agree with the Material 
Data Sheet and recommendation from the Paint 
Material Supplier. 
The following must be followed at a minimum for all 
part reprocesses: 
3.2.3.1 The maximum number of reprocess 
applications is one for primer and one for topcoat. 
3.2.3.2 All reprocessed parts must meet all the 
requirements stated in this specification and all 
other specifications and requirements listed on the 
engineering drawing. 
3.2.3.3 Sanding to substrate is not allowed. 
Sanding is allowed on the topcoat system to 
remove 
surface 
imperfections 
or 
defects. 
Documentation of sanding process is required. 
3.3 Conditions. 
3.3.1 Environmental Conditions. Not applicable. 
3.3.2 Test Conditions. Deviations from the 
requirements of this standard shall have been 
agreed upon. Such requirements shall be specified 
on component drawings, test certificates, reports, 
etc. Tests shall be conducted using the latest issue 
of the test methods indicated. 
Unless otherwise specified, painted samples shall 
be subjected to the testing after a minimum aging 
period of 72 h following the baking or drying cycle. 
A shorter aging period may be used, provided it is 
recognized that this represents a more severe 
condition of test and that results obtained at 
different aging times under 72 h are not a good 
basis for comparing the relative performance 
characteristics of paint finishes. 
3.4 Instructions. Figure 1 depicts the APOPS 
approval process. Parts furnished for APOPS 
approval shall meet the test requirements as 
shown in Table A1 for exterior or Table A4 for 
interior. 
3.4.1 Component Testing/APOPS – for Painted 
Exterior and Painted Interior Components. 
Component testing is to be performed for the 
production part per Table A1 for exterior and Table 
A4 for interior applications. This testing is required 
for APOPS approval. Each molder/painter must 
have APOPS approval for each combination of 
substrate/paint/paint 
process. 
Once 
the 
molder/painter has APOPS approval for a given 
combination of substrate/paint/paint process, this 
approval may also be used for other components 
that 
use 
the 
same 
combination 
of 
substrate/paint/paint process. If any changes are 
made in the substrate/paint/paint process, APOPS 
testing on components must be repeated and 
reviewed with the appropriate GM Engineer. 
Additionally, PPAP testing must be completed for 
each unique part. 
Note: The APOPS process is not applicable for 
skinned polyurethane parts or engine compartment 
components. Please see 4.2.3 and 4.2.4 on PPAP 
requirements. 
3.4.1.1 All specimens for testing must be obtained 
from parts that have been molded, painted and 
processed using the same equipment, tools, 
materials, 
processing 
conditions 
and 
manufacturing locations that will be used to 
manufacture production parts for vehicle assembly. 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
October 2009 
Page 4 of 24 
 
If regrind is allowed, all specimens for testing must 
be obtained from production parts that are made 
from the maximum allowable regrind as stated on 
the drawing. 
3.4.1.2 Each test must be completed on a 
minimum of three samples, each obtained from 
separate parts (except fascias - see 3.4.1.3). 
3.4.1.3 For fascia systems, triplicate samples need 
not be obtained from three separate fascias due to 
the size and cost of fascias. In this case, three 
samples may be taken from different locations on 
the same part. See Figure 2 for example of testing 
locations. Since fascias vary in design, please see 
responsible GM Materials Engineer if you need 
assistance in choosing the locations. 
3.4.1.4 For Exterior, testing shall be performed in 
two colors: White and Light Metallic for original 
non-repaired parts. If the color palette contains a 
Tricoat (such as Bright White Diamond), that color 
must be tested in addition to the two standard 
colors. If the two standard colors are not contained 
in the color palette, the GM Materials Engineer 
may approve substitutions. 
3.4.1.4.1 Testing to Table A1 must also be 
performed in White only. For GMNA, test on a part 
that has seen two primer reprocesses and two 
topcoat 
reprocesses 
(Example: 
Primer-bake, 
primer-bake, 
primer-bake, 
topcoat-bake, 
topcoat-bake, topcoat-bake – six paint layers). For 
GME and General Motors Holden (GMHA), only 
one primer reprocess and one topcoat reprocess is 
to 
be 
tested 
(Primer-Bake, 
Topcoat-Bake, 
Primer-Bake, Topcoat-bake – four paint layers). If 
white is not contained in the color palette, use color 
with the highest film build. 
3.4.1.5 For Interior, testing shall be performed in 
each production color for the application. 
3.4.1.6 All bakes are to be those of the production 
system and must fall within the GM Paint approved 
bake charts for each layer. 
3.4.1.7 All coating thicknesses must be in 
accordance to material requirements as specified 
on the part drawing notes or in math file. All 
coating thicknesses must be measured and 
reported. 
3.4.1.8 Exterior Parts which are source primed and 
subsequently top coated at assembly plants shall 
be capable of accepting the topcoat paint system 
and meeting the requirements specified with both 
prime only and with both topcoat and prime. See 
responsible GM Materials Engineer to confirm test 
requirements for APOPS on primed parts, and to 
determine the number of parts to be top coated 
and to coordinate the top coating of the parts in the 
assembly plant. 
3.4.1.9 When this testing is completed, the tested 
specimens cut from the parts and test report will be 
reviewed 
by 
the 
responsible 
GM 
Materials 
Engineer and entered into the APOPS database. 
Note: Full APOPS approval may be given at this 
time depending on test results. 
3.5 Data. Not applicable. 
3.6 Safety. This standard may involve hazardous 
materials, 
operations, 
and 
equipment. 
This 
standard does not propose to address all the 
safety problems associated with its use. It is the 
responsibility of the user of this standard to 
establish appropriate safety and health practices 
and determine the applicability of regulatory 
limitations prior to use. Suitable precautions should 
be taken to ensure that applicable safe limits are 
not exceeded when conducting test procedures, 
processes and/or handling the materials required 
by this specification. 
3.7 Documentation. Samples of components or 
material released to this standard shall be tested 
for conformity with the requirements of this 
standard and approved by the responsible GM 
department prior to the start of delivery of 
production level components or materials. Any 
changes to the component of material, e.g., 
design, 
function, 
properties, 
manufacturing 
process, and/or location of manufacture requires a 
new release of the product. It is the sole 
responsibility of the supplier to provide the 
customer, unsolicited, with documentation of any 
change or modification to the product/process, and 
to apply for a new release. If not otherwise agreed 
to, the entire verification test shall be repeated and 
documented by the supplier prior to start of 
delivery of the modified or changed product. In 
some cases a shorter test can be agreed to, the 
entire verification test shall be repeated document 
by the supplier prior to start of delivery of the 
modified or changed product. In some cases, a 
shorter test can be agreed to between the 
responsible GM department and the supplier. 
3.7.1 Changes in Processing. After the initial 
APOPS has been established, any change in 
processing parameters as recorded on Table A6 or 
A7, 
Paint 
Processing 
Data 
Form, 
requires 
evaluation with the responsible GM Materials 
Engineer. It is the sole responsibility of the supplier 
to 
provide 
the 
customer, 
uns

GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
October 2009 
Page 5 of 24 
 
changed product. In some cases a shorter test can 
be agreed to between the responsible GM 
department and the supplier. 
3.7.2 Test Results. Test reports shall be written 
per 
the 
Requirements 
for 
Test 
Report 
in 
ISO/IEC 17025. Additionally, a test report that 
contains all of the requirements listed in 3.7.2.1 to 
3.7.2.17 shall be submitted to the GM Materials 
Engineer (reference Table A13, APOPS Checklist). 
3.7.2.1 Table A12, APOPS Request Form; if 
requested by GM Materials Engineer. 
3.7.2.2 A copy of the Registration or Scope of 
Accreditation for each test facility that provided 
data. 
3.7.2.3 Table A6 or A7, Paint Processing Data 
Form completed and signed by paint facility 
management. 
3.7.2.4 Table A8 or A9, GM APOPS Test Data 
Form completed (Table A8 for Exterior and A9 for 
Interior). Enlarge as required. A subset of the tests 
on this form may be used to report PPAP data. 
3.7.2.5 Copy of material requirements as listed in 
part drawing notes from the latest print or math file. 
3.7.2.6 Signed documentation of the percent 
regrind on parts tested. 
3.7.2.7 Datapaq or equivalent indicating part 
surface temperature versus time for all paint bakes 
including post cure. 
3.7.2.8 Schematic indicating the location of part 
where Film Build was taken. This includes 
reprocessed parts. 
3.7.2.9 Paint film thickness per ISO 2808 on each 
part that is used to cut test specimens. Measure a 
minimum of four areas on each part and take the 
average and report it. More than four areas may be 
required due to part design. Please see the 
responsible materials engineer for a definition of 
the number and placement of the areas required. 
Report the thickness of each paint layer (i.e., 
primer, topcoat). 
3.7.2.9.1 For Interior parts, a minimum of 3 parts in 
a minimum of 3 locations per part, dependent upon 
part size, shall be measured (if not using a shim). 
Individual measurement locations will be indicated 
with a schematic as well as individual readings and 
the average of the measurements shall be 
reported. (See Note 5 in Table A4 for details on 
how to measure film build). 
3.7.2.10 GM9620M Film Build Chart for each 
coating (if applicable, in accordance with part 
drawing notes or math file). (Not applicable for 
Interior coatings). 
3.7.2.11 A GM approved and signed bake chart for 
each coating. 
3.7.2.12 Schematic indicating the location on the 
part from which the test plaques were obtained. 
See Figure 2 for example of a fascia schematic. 
3.7.2.13 White parts reprocess twice for reprocess 
validation. (Not applicable for interior coatings.) 
3.7.2.14 Signed documentation of the reprocess 
procedure used by the painted part supplier. 
3.7.2.15 Signed documentation of the sanding 
process procedure used by the painted part 
supplier. 
3.7.2.16 Tested parts for review by the responsible 
GM Materials Engineer (see 3.3). 
3.7.2.17 All tested samples shall be retained by the 
supplier for review by the appropriate GM Materials 
Engineer at least until APOPS approval is 
obtained. 
3.13 Deviations from Test Procedure. Deviations 
from the requirements of the test procedures shall 
have 
been 
agreed 
upon 
with 
GM. 
Such 
requirements shall be specified on component 
drawings, test certificates, reports, etc. 
4 Requirements and Procedure 
4.1 Component Testing/APOPS. 
(Reference 
3.4.1). Perform testing as indicated in Table A1 for 
exterior or Table A4 for interior component testing. 
4.2 PPAP Testing. 
4.2.1 Exterior Components. Perform testing on all 
program colors as indicated in Table A5 for 
components, unless otherwise noted by the GM 
Materials Engineer. (Additional testing/Table A1 
testing may be required.) A printout of the APOPS 
approval will be required with the PPAP package. 
4.2.2 Interior Components. Perform testing on all 
program colors as indicated in Table A4 for 
components, unless otherwise noted by the GM 
Materials Engineer. (Additional testing may be 
required.) A printout of the APOPS approval will be 
required with the PPAP package. 
4.2.3 
Polyurethane 
Skinned 
Components. 
Perform testing as indicated in Table A2 for PPAP. 
APOPS approval does not apply. 
4.2.4 
Engine 
Compartment 
Components. 
Perform testing as indicated in Table A3 for PPAP. 
APOPS approval does not apply. 
4.2.5 PPAP Testing Using Reverse APOPS for 
Interior or Exterior Components. Regarding the 
original APOPS Approval Process exceptions can 
be made if required. The exceptions must be 
defined by the responsible GM department. For 
GME and other regions where APOPS is a new 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
October 2009 
Page 6 of 24 
 
process, a Reverse APOPS procedure can be 
agreed between GM and the supplier. For Reverse 
APOPS 
the 
following 
must 
be 
submitted/guaranteed by the supplier at time 
of PPAP: 
 
All data and information as are requested by 
the 
GMW14797 
during 
original 
APOPS 
Approval Process. 
 
Parts must meet all requirements as shown in 
Table A1 or Table A4. 
4.3 Daily Quality Control Testing. Testing as 
stated in this specification, at a minimum, is to be 
followed unless otherwise noted by GM Supplier 
Quality or in the Statement of Requirements. All 
tests as listed in Table A10 or A11 must be run 
every shift on one color that is run for that 
particular shift. Colors must be randomized. Report 
the daily test data and date. 
A Datapaq or equivalent part temperature chart 
recorder must be run a minimum of one time per 
day per oven. To ensure that each oven is 
consistent from shift to shift, the Datapaq or 
equivalent charts must be taken on alternating 
shifts. For example: Monday – Shift 1, Tuesday – 
Shift 2, Wednesday – Shift 1, etc. 
4.4 Weekly Quality Control Testing. Testing as 
stated in this specification, at a minimum, is to be 
followed unless otherwise noted by GM Supplier 
Quality or in the Statement of Requirements. All 
tests as listed in Table A10 or A11 must be run 
once per week on every color run that particular 
week. Report the weekly test data and date. 
4.5 Additional Requirements. The following 
requirements must be met at the specified 
frequencies. Any painted part supplier to GM must 
keep records of the following activities and be able 
to provide them for review at any time. No aging 
period is required for quality control samples. A 
quality control plan will be developed with every 
supplier for every part to determine the areas of 
the part in which the tests need to be performed. 
All bakes must comply with the GM approved bake 
charts. Table A10 and A11 have requirements for 
each quality control test. 
 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
October 2009 
Page 7 of 24 
 
 
Figure 1: Overall APOPS Process 
 
New Substrate Material
•Test material properties to 
appropriate GMWXXXXX 
specification 
•Test paintability of 
material per GMW16172
New Paint Material
Tested to 
GMWXXXXX or
998XXXX
Approved Substrates
are entered into 
MATSPC database 
and marked as 
“paintable”
Purpose:
To Generically
Approve New 
Substrates and
New Paints.
Raw Material Testing:
Performed by
Raw Material &
Paint Suppliers
Raw Material Approvals:
Performed by
GM Engineers
Example:
- TPO
- Polyester
- SMC
Approved Paints 
are entered into 
MATSPC database
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Note:  New paint 
colors must also 
be approved 
through 
appropriate GM 
specifications.  
APOPS Testing:
To be Performed 
by Part Supplier
APOPS Approvals:
To be Performed by 
GM Materials
Engineers
Substrate/Paint Combination is Tested 
on Production Parts Using Exact
Production Processing System 
(See sections 3.3 & 4.1)
Production-Specific 
Source is Approved in 
APOPS Database
Purpose:
To verify 
performance of 
substrate/paint 
combination 
using exact 
production 
process
Note:  APOPS 
Approval is 
required for 
PPAP.


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
October 2009 
Page 8 of 24 
 
Figure 2: Fascia Example Test Location 
 
 
Figure 3: Initial Adhesion Entire Surface Cross-Hatch (Exterior) 
 
 
 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
October 2009 
Page 9 of 24 
 
5 Provisions for Shipping 
5.1 Source Shipment Responsibility. It will be 
the responsibility of the supplier to insure that the 
material is not exposed to temperatures during 
shipment which would cause the material to fail to 
meet any of the requirements of this specification. 
6 Notes 
6.1 Glossary. 
MATSPC: Global repository of GM approved 
materials for corresponding GM Engineering 
Standards. 
Reprocessing: Running a previously finished part 
through the original equipment manufacturer 
(OEM) process. 
6.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. 
APOPS 
Approved Paint on Parts 
GLD 
 
Perceived gloss of 2 (Low Gloss) 
GME 
 
General Motors Europe 
GMHA  
General Motors Holden 
GMNA  
General Motors North America 
mil  
 
Thousandths of an inch 
MAI 
Multi Axial Impact 
MATSPC 
See 6.1 
OEM 
 
Original Equipment Manufacturer 
PPAP  
Production Part Approval Process 
SMC 
 
Sheet Molding Compound 
TPO 
 
Thermoplastic Polyolefin 
7 Additional Paragraphs 
7.1 All parts or systems supplied to this standard 
must comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. 
7.2 All materials supplied to this specification must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules 
and Regulations for Material Specifications. 
7.3 Certificate of Analysis. The supplier shall be 
responsible for submitting a Certificate of Analysis 
with each batch of material arriving at a plant. This 
document shall be prepared and provide data in 
accordance with the requirements detailed in 
GM4389M. 
7.4 Other additional requirements may be specified 
on the relevant component drawings, material 
specifications, etc. 
7.5 Parts for Aftersales Service. Parts for 
aftersales service shall be primed. Completely 
coated Parts for aftersales service shall fulfill the 
requirements to GMW14797. 
8 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, etc., as follows: 
GMW14797 
9 Release and Revisions 
9.1 Release. This standard originated in November 
2005, replacing GME00010 and GM4497M. It was 
first approved by the Materials Engineering Group 
in November 2006. It was first published in 
April 2007. 
9.2 Revisions. 
Rev 
Approval 
Date 
Description (Organization) 
A 
OCT 2009 
Major 
changes 
to 
entire 
document. (Global Materials 
and Corrosion Team) 


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2009 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
October 2009 
Page 10 of 24 
 
Appendix A 
 
Table A1: APOPS Requirements for Exterior Painted Parts (White, White Repair, Light Metallic) 
Test Class 
GM Spec 
Requirements 
Tape adhesion 
GMW14829 
Cross Hatch 
Maximum rating of 1. 
Adequacy of cure Note 1 
GMW15891 
Maximum rating of 0 for systems with clearcoat. 
Maximum rating of 1 for monocoats. 
96 h humidity followed by tape 
adhesion 
GMW14729/ 
GMW14829 
Cross Hatch 
No appearance change. 
Maximum rating of 1. 
240 h humidity followed by 
tape adhesion 
GMW14729/ 
GMW14829 
Cross Hatch 
No appearance change. 
Maximum rating of 1. 
Chip Resistance 
GMW14700 
Method (A or B) and 
(C) 
Minimum rating of 9. 
Mandrel bend – Flex 23C-4T 
Note 2 
GM9503P 
Minimum rating of 8. Flexible Substrates Only 
(<800 MPa Flex. Mod.) 
Gasoline resistance-dip Note 3 
GMW14333-A 
Rating 2. No color change or paint removal to 
previous surface or lifting or peeling of paint film. No 
appearance change. 
Gasoline 
resistance 
-
immersion - Test to 15, 30, 45 
and 
60 minutes. 
(TPO 
substrates only) 
GMW14333-B 
Max paint removal of 20% after 15 minutes 
immersion. 
Report 
results 
after 
30, 
45 
and 
60 minutes immersion. 
Chemical 
resistance 
(Not 
required if paint is approved to 
a GM 998XXXX specification) 
GMW14701 
For method 2 and 3 plant materials: Rating 10 
For method 2 environmental materials: Rating 10 
For method 3 environmental materials: Report etch 
free temperature. 
Moisture cold – Cycle A 
+24 h humidity 
GMW14124 
GMW14729 
No appearance change. 
No appearance change. 
+Tape adhesion 
GMW14829 
Cross Hatch 
Maximum rating of 1. 
Multiaxial impact – Class E 
(For fascias only) 
GM9904P 
All ductile failures. 
Multiaxial impact, at 0C (For 
fascias only) – Speed: 4.4 m/s 
Probe: 20 mm dia. 
Clamp: 40 mm dia. 
ISO6603-2 
Report results. 
Water Jet (For fascias only) 
GM9531P-B 
Max paint removal of 60 mm2 
