# GMW15672.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Material Specification 
Adhesives 
GMW15672 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Service Guidelines For Bonding and Sealing of Stationary 
Automotive Glass 
 
 
© Copyright 2007 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
September 2007 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 2
 
1 Scope 
This guideline describes the performance for an 
adhesive system suitable for the bonding of 
stationary automotive glass into GM vehicle body 
openings as a field service repair or replacement. 
1.1 Material Description. The material is typically 
a one or two component, moisture cure, black 
polyurethane adhesive sealing compound. It is 
used in conjunction with compatible glass side 
primers for bonding automotive glass to body 
openings. Based on compatibility, it may be used 
with or without a primer for bonding to specific 
paint systems on plastics or metals. 
1.2 Symbols. The material abbreviation according 
to ISO 11469 is <PUR>. 
1.3 Typical Applications. Materials referred to in 
this specification are used for the bonding and 
sealing of fixed automotive glass. These are 
typically windshields, backlites, fixed liftgates, fixed 
side and encapsulated glass. 
1.4 
Remarks. 
The 
test 
procedures 
and 
performance 
requirements 
contained 
in 
this 
specification are to serve as a template for 
adhesive manufactures to assist them in the 
determination of the acceptability of their products 
in the above mentioned applications. It is a guide, 
and is not to be construed as an approval of any 
such repair techniques by General Motors, its 
agents or dealers. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ASTM D2240 
ISO 11469 
EPA Test Method #24 
 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
GME60252 
GMW3041 
GM9832P 
GMW3059 
GMW3001 
 
2.3 Additional References. 
VDA 278 
3 Requirements 
3.1 
Requirements 
on 
Delivery. 
Materials 
considered for use under this guideline must meet 
all the performance requirements, approval and 
compatibility, and material stability sections of 
GMW3041, 
Performance 
Requirements 
for 
Bonding and Sealing of Stationary Automotive 
Glass. 
3.1.1 Material Selection by Region. Specific 
regional build requirements must be considered. 
Unique material properties, such as low or non-
conductivity or modulus, may have an effect upon 
vehicle performance. Select adhesive materials 
consistent with requirements specific to the 
regional vehicle build location. 
3.2 Physical Requirements. 
3.2.1 Material Properties, Uncured. 
3.2.1.1 Color. Visual inspection. Requirement = 
Black. 
3.2.1.2 Odor. GM9832P. Requirement = No 
objectionable odor. 
3.2.1.3 VOC. EPA Test Method #24, Procedure B 
or VDA 278. Requirement = 2% maximum. 
3.2.2 Material Properties, Cured. 
3.2.2.1 Shore Hardness. GME 60252 or ASTM 
D2240. (Shore A Instantaneous reading.) All 
readings must fall within the specified tolerances 
as tested on a single sample at each of the 
following conditions. 
3.2.2.1.1 168 h at 22 ± 3°C and 50% RH. 
3.2.2.1.2 4 h at -30 ± 3°C after cure at 168 h at 
22 ± 3°C and 50% RH. Test at temperature. 
Maximum increase of 15 points over 168 h RT 
value is allowed. 
3.2.2.1.3 336 h at 70 ± 2°C after cure at 168 h at 
22 ± 3°C and 50% RH. Test at 22 ± 3°C. Maximum 
increase of 15 points over 168 h RT value is 
allowed. 
4 Manufacturing Process 
Not applicable. 
Copyright General Motors Company 
Provided by IHS under license with General Motors Company
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 09/26/2011 23:57:50 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--``,,,`,,`,,,`,`,,``,`,,,```-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW15672 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2007 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 2 
September 2007
 
5 Rules and Regulations 
5.1 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules 
and Regulations for Material Specifications. 
5.2 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. 
6 Approved Sources 
Approved sources are at the discretion of GM 
SPO. 
7 Notes 
7.1 Glossary. Not applicable. 
7.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. 
EPA 
 
Environmental Protection Agency 
VDA 
 
Verband der Automobilindustrie 
VOC 
 
Volatile Organic Compounds 
8 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, etc., as follows: 
Material per GMW15672 
9 Release and Revisions 
9.1 
Release. 
This 
standard 
originated 
in 
September 2007, replacing GM3651G. It was first 
approved by (replace with approving organization’s 
name) in September 2007. It was first published in 
September 2007. 
 
 
Copyright General Motors Company 
Provided by IHS under license with General Motors Company
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 09/26/2011 23:57:50 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--``,,,`,,`,,,`,`,,``,`,,,```-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
