# GMW14729.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Test Procedure 
Materials 
GMW14729 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Procedures for High Humidity Test 
 
 
© Copyright 2007 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
February 2007 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 2
 
1 Scope 
Note: Nothing in this standard supersedes 
applicable laws and regulations unless specific 
exemption has been obtained. 
Note: In the event of conflict between the English 
and domestic language, the English language shall 
take precedence. 
1.1 Purpose. This procedure describes two 
options (water fog and wet-bottom) of high 
humidity testing which are typically used to 
evaluate 
the 
influence 
of 
high 
humidity 
environments to coated substrates. This influence 
is usually measured by testing physical and 
mechanical properties before and after exposure. 
1.2 Foreword. Not applicable. 
1.3 Applicability. Not applicable. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ASTM B117 
ASTM D1735-04 
ASTM D1193 
ISO 6270-2 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
None 
 
3 Resources 
3.1 Facilities. Not applicable. 
3.2 Equipment. 
3.2.1 Option A: Water Fog. The apparatus for 
fogging humidity exposure shall consist of a 
fog/environmental chamber, suitable water supply 
conforming to ASTM D1193 Type IV, a supply of 
suitably conditioned compressed air, one or more 
atomizing nozzles, provisions for heating the 
chamber and the necessary means of control (refer 
to ASTM B117, Appendix X.1 for further details 
regarding the construction of the apparatus). 
3.2.2 Option B: Wet-Bottom. The apparatus shall 
consist of the chamber design as defined in 
ISO 6270-2 (2005-07-01) Section 5.1 “Climatic 
Chamber”. 
Note: During wet-bottom generated humidity 
cycles insure that visible water droplets are found 
on the samples to verify proper wetness. 
3.3 Test Vehicle/Test Piece. Test specimen 
preparation shall be per the applicable product or 
material specification, or per agreement between 
the requester and the test analyst. 
3.4 Test Time. Not applicable. 
3.5 Test Required Information. Not applicable. 
3.6 Personnel/Skills. Not applicable. 
4 Procedure 
4.1 Preparation. Humidity test environment and 
duration of test shall be per the applicable product 
or material specification, or per agreement 
between the requester and tester. 
4.2 Conditions. 
4.2.1 Environmental Conditions. The apparatus 
for humidity exposure shall be installed in a room 
with 
an 
ambient 
atmosphere 
where 
room 
temperature is 23 ± 5°C and <75% RH. 
4.2.2 Test Conditions. Deviations from the 
requirements of the procedure shall have been 
agreed upon. Such requirements shall be specified 
on component drawings, test certificates, reports, 
etc. 
4.3 Instructions. 
4.3.1 
Option 
A: 
Water 
Fog. 
Test 
per 
ASTM D1735-04 Section 7 “Procedure”. 
• 
Temperature: 38 ± 2°C 
• 
Humidity: ~100% RH 
4.3.2 Option B: Wet Bottom. Test per ISO 6270-2 
(2005-07-01) Section 4 “General”, Table 1, Code 
CH: 
• 
Temperature: 40 ± 3°C 
• 
Humidity: ~100% RH 
5 Data 
5.1 Calculations. Not applicable. 
5.2 Interpretation of Results. Evaluations (pre-
test 
and 
post-test), 
rating 
methods, 
and 
acceptance criteria shall be specified within 
engineering 
documentation 
which 
includes: 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW14729 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2007 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 2 
February 2007
 
Material 
Specifications, 
Subsystem 
Technical 
Specifications, Component Technical Specification, 
and Part Drawings. 
5.3 Test Documentation. Test documentation 
must include Type of used equipment (Option A or 
B). 
5.3.1 Option A: Fogging. In addition to the 
documentation 
required 
per 
ASTM D1735-04 
Section 8 Report, the following parameters shall 
be monitored and recorded on a daily basis 
(weekends and holidays are exceptions): 
• 
Cabinet temperature 
• 
Bubble tower temperature 
• 
Bubble tower pressure 
• 
Collection rate 
5.3.2 Option B: Non-Fogging. The required test 
documentation shall be per ISO 6270-2 (2005-07-
01) Section 8 Test Report. 
6 Safety 
This standard may involve hazardous materials, 
operations, and equipment. This standard does not 
propose to address all the safety problems 
associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the 
user of the standard to establish appropriate safety 
and 
health 
practices 
and 
determine 
the 
applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 
7 Notes 
7.1 Glossary. Not applicable. 
7.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. Not 
applicable. 
8 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, VTS, CTS, etc. as follows: 
Test to GMW14729 
9 Release and Revisions 
9.1 Release. This standard originated in October 
2005, replacing GM4465P and GME 60202. It was 
first approved by the Global Materials Testing 
Team in December 2006. It was first published in 
February 2007. 
 
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
