# GMW14701.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Test Method 
Materials 
GMW14701 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resistance of Coatings to Chemical Etching and Distortion 
 
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
December 2006 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 3
 
1 Scope 
This standard describes the test procedures to 
evaluate the sensitivity of paint coatings or films to 
etching, distortion or discoloration from exposure to 
assembly plant chemicals or severe outdoor 
environmental conditions. 
Note: Nothing in this standard supersedes 
applicable laws and regulations unless specific 
exemption has been obtained. 
Note: In the event of conflict between the English 
and domestic language, the English language shall 
take precedence. 
1.1 Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. By 1997 start of saleable vehicles, all 
materials supplied to this standard must comply 
with 
the 
requirements 
listed 
in 
GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
None 
 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
9981386 
9986181 
9981606 
GM4653M 
9982015 
GM6277M 
9985670 
GM9625P 
9985809 
GMW3059 
9986121 
 
3 Test Equipment 
3.1 Thermal Gradient Bar, the following model or 
equivalent: BYK - CHEMIE Model 2612, 250 C, 
RS232 Computer, 524 S. Cherry, P.O. Box 5670, 
Wallingford, CT 06492, (203) 265-2086. 
3.2 Air-circulating electric oven. 
3.3 Temperature measuring equipment (DATAPAQ 
system with thermocouples and thermistors or 
equivalent). 
3.4 Pipette for application of test materials. 
3.5 Clean, lint-free, nonabrasive wiping cloths. 
3.6 Humidity cabinet 
4 Test Material 
Unless otherwise indicated in the applicable 
coating material specification, the coating or film 
shall be exposed to the following materials during 
basic qualification. Testing of additional materials 
may be required for specific plant applications. 
4.1 Environmental Materials. 
4.1.1 Acid rain mixture per GM9625P at both pH 3 
and 4 
4.1.2 Sulphuric acid solutions in water – 10% by 
weight and pH of 0, 2.0 and 4.0. (Adjust per 
GM9625P) 
4.1.3 Calcium sulphate solution in water - 0.75% 
by weight and adjusted to pH of 4.0 with sulphuric 
acid 
4.1.4 Deionized water 
4.1.5 Tap water 
4.1.6 Egg Albumin – 2% by weight in deionized 
water 
4.1.7 Fuel Oil Soot – 4.0 g sodium metavanadate 
(NaVO3◦H2O), 10.0 g ferrous Sulphate (FeSO4◦ 
7H2O) and 8.0 g sulphuric acid – the reagents are 
added to deionized water to give a final volume of 
100 mL and a pH value of approximately 1.2 
4.2 Plant Materials. 
4.2.1 Car wash detergent, 9982015 - concentrate, 
1:50 and 1:100 dilutions with tap water 
4.2.2 Adhesive remover, 9981606 
4.2.3 Grease, 9981386 (Texaco Thermatex EP-1 
or equivalent) 
4.2.4 Motor Oil, any commercial 10W-30 grade 
4.2.5 
Windshield 
washer 
fluid, 
9985670 
concentrate 1:1 with tap water or commercial 
mixed materials, full strength 
4.2.6 Brake Fluid, GM4653M (9986121) 
4.2.7 Poly Alkaline Glycol Oil (9986181) 
4.2.8 Engine Coolant, GM6277M (9985809) 
The above outlines the typical materials to be 
tested. Other regional specific materials may be 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/20/2007 01:18:33 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--```,``,`,``,`````,`,,,,,`,``,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GMW14701 
GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
Page 2 of 3 
December 2006
 
selected by the responsible engineer. Please 
confirm all materials with the engineer prior to 
beginning the test method. 
4.3 Test Panels. Panels shall be prepared using 
the specified processing such as film build and 
bake. Recommended panel size is 100 x 300 mm 
or larger. For tests with most materials, etching or 
distortion of the coating surface can be most easily 
observed on black panels. Where the primary 
effect is expected to be discoloration, white panels 
must be used. Because of test variability and rating 
subjectiveness, control panels of similar current 
technologies should be run concurrent with the 
coating to be tested. Unless otherwise indicated, 
coated test panels or film samples shall be aged a 
maximum of 24 h at room temperature prior to 
exposure. 
5 Test Method 
5.1 Summary of Test Method. Not applicable. 
5.2 Test Sample Preparation. Not applicable. 
5.3 Test Procedure. 
5.3.1 Procedure. Prior to testing, wipe panels with 
a 50/50 water-IPA mixture. For all testing, apply 
0.05 mL of the specified test solutions via pipette to 
the test panel. Multiple solutions can be evaluated 
on the same panel. Spotted panels are then tested 
per one or more of the following methods. Unless 
otherwise 
indicated 
in 
the 
coating 
material 
specification, Method 1 and 2 shall be used for 
testing of environmental materials (except item 
4.1.7), and Methods 2 and 3 for plant materials. 
Where environmental materials must be evaluated 
on coated nonmetallic panels not suitable for 
gradient bar testing, Method 3 may be used at 
10°C increments. Method 4 is to be used for 
environmental materials item 4.1.7 only. 
5.3.1.1 Method 1 – Temperature Gradient Bar. 
See 5.3.1. 
5.3.1.1.1 Place drops along the entire length of two 
100 x 300 mm panels. Drops can be in either a 
straight line spaced 6.0 mm apart or in a zig-zag 
pattern. 
5.3.1.1.2 Place panels on gradient bar that runs 
from 38 to 82°C. Bar should be calibrated to 
ensure that panel heat up time is no greater than 
2 minutes for 0.090 mm thickness steel substrate. 
Residence time on bar must be adjusted for plastic 
or thick metal substrates requiring longer heat-up 
times (or use Method 3 at 10°C increments). 
5.3.1.1.3 Remove one panel after 15 minutes 
exposure at temperature, and the other panel after 
30 minutes exposure. 
5.3.1.1.4 Rinse any remaining test solution from 
panels, using water or compatible, nonagressive 
solvent. 
5.3.1.1.5 Record and report etch-free temperature 
for test coating and control. 
5.3.1.1.6 Allow panels to recover for 24 h and re-
rate. 
5.3.1.2 Method 3 – Elevated Temperature Test. 
See 5.3.1. 
5.3.1.2.1 Apply two spots of each test solution to 
coated panel. 
5.3.1.2.2 Allow panels to age 24 h at room 
temperature. Ambient conditions must be 21 to 
25°C, 30 to 50% RH with averages recorded. 
5.3.1.2.3 Rinse any remaining test solutions from 
panel using water or applicable solvent and wipe 
dry. 
5.3.1.2.4 Rate and report the affect of each test 
solution, compared to the control, per the Scale in 
6.1. 
5.3.1.3 Method 3 – Elevated Temperature Test. 
Follow steps outlined in Method 2, see 5.3.1 
except as follows: 
5.3.1.3.1 After application of test solutions, place 
panels in an electric air-circulating oven that has 
been preheated to the specified temperature. Use 
70°C, unless otherwise indicated in the applicable 
coating specification. 
5.3.1.3.2 Condition panels in oven for 30 minutes 
at substrate temperature. Record actual substrate 
temperature. 
5.3.1.3.3 For testing of environmental materials on 
nonmetallic substrates which are not suitable for 
temperature gradient bar, run tests at 50, 60, 70, 
80°C, and report etch-free temperature. 
5.3.1.4 Method 4 – Fuel Oil Soot Test. See 5.3.1. 
The test piece shall be conditioned for 3 h in a 
humidity cabinet at 40°C ± 2°C (104°F°± 36°F) and 
93 ± 2% relative humidity, following which the test 
medium shall be spotted onto the test surface via 
pipette in at 3 places approximately 3 cm apart. 
Each site wetted with the test solution shall have a 
diameter of approximately 10 mm. The prepared 
test piece shall be returned to the humidity cabinet 
in a horizontal position for 48 h at 40 ± 2°C 
(104 ± 36°F) and 93 + 2% relative humidity. After 
removing from the humidity cabinet, wash the test 
panel with tap water and air dry. Evaluate per 
section 6.1 immediately after panel is dried. 
6 Evaluation and Rating 
6.1 Rating Scale. The subjective rating scale (See 
Table 1) shall be used to evaluate and report the 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/20/2007 01:18:33 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--```,``,`,``,`````,`,,,,,`,``,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14701
 
© Copyright 2006 General Motors Corporation All Rights Reserved 
December 2006 
Page 3 of 3
 
effect of test materials on the coating or film. In all 
cases, the effect on controls should be evaluated 
at the same time for comparison. 
Table 1: Subjective Rating Scale 
10 
= No change 
8 
= Slight 
6 
= Moderate 
4 
= Pronounced 
2 
= Severe 
7 Report 
7.1 The following information must be provided in 
the report of all test results: 
7.1.1 Complete identification of test coating and 
control. 
7.1.2 Complete identification of test solutions. 
7.1.3 Time and verified temperature for each test. 
7.1.4 For Method 1, etch-free temperature and 
comparison to control. 
7.1.5 For Methods 2 and 3, rating of effect and 
comparison to control. 
8 Safety 
This standard may involve hazardous materials, 
operations, and equipment. This standard does not 
propose to address all the safety problems 
associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the 
user of the method to establish appropriate safety 
and 
health 
practices 
and 
determine 
the 
applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 
9 Notes 
9.1 Glossary. Not applicable. 
9.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. Not 
applicable. 
10 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, VTS, CTS, etc. as follows: 
Test per GMW14701 
11 Release and Revisions 
11.1 Release. The standard originated in October 
2005, replacing GM9533P, GME 60403, GME 
60404, GME 60406, GME 60408, GME 60409, 
GMW14702, and GMW14703. It was first approved 
by the Global Paint Team in September 2006. It 
was first published in December 2006. 
 
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 06/20/2007 01:18:33 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--```,``,`,``,`````,`,,,,,`,``,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
