# GMW_14797_3_2012-03_en.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
General Specification 
GMW14797 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Painted Plastic Parts Performance Requirements 
 
 
© Copyright 2012 General Motors Company All Rights Reserved 
March 2012 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 30 
 
1 Introduction 
1.1 Scope. This standard covers organic surface coatings on plastic parts and components used for 
automotive exterior and interior applications on motor vehicles, and also for painted components within the 
engine compartment. 
1.2 Mission/Theme. This specification details the performance requirements for applied paints on plastic parts 
used for either exterior, interior or engine compartment applications on motor vehicles. This also covers 
performance requirements for painted, chrome plated parts. This includes the laboratory test requirements for 
GM Approved Paint on Parts (APOPS), Production Part Approval Process (PPAP) approval, processing 
conditions, and routine quality control for exterior and interior plastic painted automobile components. 
1.2.1 APOPS Approval vs. PPAP Approval. APOPS is intended as detailed review of a new combination of 
substrate/paint/paint process for a specific molder/painter. This is accomplished by the GM Materials Engineer 
with the supplier. An APOPS approval is documented with either: 
i) 
Entry into either the MATSPC/APOPS database available on GM SupplyPower. 
ii) 
Entry into the APOPS spreadsheet loaded on GM SupplyPower. 
iii) 
Approval document from GM to supplier. 
Typically, the molder/painter may re-use the APOPS approval for an additional new part that has the same 
substrate/paint/paint process, however, the GM Materials Engineer may request an APOPS submission or 
additional testing at their discretion. 
For new combinations of substrate/paint/painter, the APOPS data is often used for part (e.g., for exterior parts) 
or all (e.g., interior parts) of the PPAP submission. In all cases, the APOPS approval documentation is required 
with the PPAP package. Reference PPAP Checklist, Table A15. 
1.2.2 Raw Material Approvals. This specification applies only to substrate and paint related materials that 
have been qualified and approved to the appropriate GM specifications. 
1.2.2.1 Substrates. The substrate must be approved to the appropriate GM material specification. For 
previously unpainted substrates, substrate paintability may be demonstrated per GMW16172 (plaques or 
parts), or via APOPS testing to the appropriate table: 
 
Table A1A for exterior applications (including weathering of parts per Table A1A, Note 5) 
 
Table A1B for exterior applications with paint over chrome (including weathering of parts per Table A1B) 
 
Table A3 for engine compartment applications 
 
Table A4 for interior trim applications (including paint over chrome). 
1.2.2.2 Paints. GMW3005 requirements must be met for approval to the appropriate, e.g., 998XXXX paint 
specification for exterior applications. GM9620M must be met for all new paint colors when applicable, as 
specified. GMW14867 must be met for the appropriate, e.g., GMWXXXX paint substrate specific specification 
for interior paints. 
1.3 Classification. Not applicable. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ASTM D3763 
ISO 105-A02 
ISO 6603-2 
SAE J1976 
ISO/IEC 17025 
ISO 2808 
ISO 20433 
SAE J2527 
ISO/TS 16949 
 
 
 
Copyright General Motors Company 
Provided by IHS under license with General Motors Company
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2012 General Motors Company All Rights Reserved 
March 2012 
Page 2 of 30 
 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
9984260 
9984901 
GMW3059 
GMW14829 
9984308 
9984904 
GMW14124 
GMW14867 
9984808 
9984905 
GMW14333 
GMW15520 
9984810 
B 040 0540 
GMW14444 
GMW15891 
9984815 
GM4389M 
GMW14445 
GMW15919 
9984818 
GM9233P 
GMW14698 
GMW16133 
9984824 
GM9503P 
GMW14700 
GMW16172 
9984836 
GM9531P 
GMW14701 
GMW16554 
9984861 
GM9620M 
GMW14704 
GMW16745 
9984862 
GMW3005 
GMW14729 
GMW16746 
2.3 Additional References. None. 
3 Test Preparation and Evaluation 
3.1 Resources. Not applicable. 
3.1.1 Calibration. The test facilities and equipment shall be in good working order and shall have a valid 
calibration label. 
3.1.2 Alternatives. Alternative test facilities and equipment may also be used. However, all measuring 
variables as specified in this standard shall be determined correctly with respect to their physical definition. 
3.1.3 Facilities. 
3.1.3.1 For APOPS Testing. All APOPS testing shall be performed in an accredited laboratory. Laboratory 
accreditations to ISO/IEC 17025 are acceptable. 
3.1.3.2 For PPAP Testing. Tests performed outside of GM are to use a lab from an organization that is either 
third party registered to ISO/TS 16949 or has laboratory accreditations to ISO/IEC 17025. 
3.1.3.3 All testing is the responsibility of the GM supplier who applies paint to the parts in question. 
3.1.4 Equipment. Not applicable. 
3.1.5 Test Vehicle/Test Piece. Not applicable. 
3.1.6 Test Time. Not applicable. 
3.1.7 Test Required Information. Not applicable. 
3.1.8 Personnel/Skills. Not applicable. 
3.2 Preparation. 
3.2.1 Bake. All bakes must comply with GM Paint approved bake charts for each specific product. GM Paint 
approved bake charts are those that have an approval signature of the responsible engineer at the bottom. 
These bake charts may be obtained from the paint suppliers. 
3.2.1.1 For Exterior Grade Parts. All Thermoplastic Polyolefin (TPO) substrates must be processed using any 
of the following three options: 
 
Option 1: High-bake adhesion promoter + topcoat systems. The adhesion promoter (e.g., 9984808, 
9984810, 9984818) is applied wet on wet and co-baked with an approved topcoat high bake system (e.g., 
9984836, 9984861, 9984862) in accordance with the GM Paint approved bake chart. 
 
Option 2: Low-bake adhesion promoter + topcoat systems. The adhesion promoter (e.g., 9984905) is 
applied wet on wet and co-baked with an approved topcoat low bake system (e.g., 9984904, 9984901) in 
accordance with the GM Paint approved bake chart. 
 
Option 3: Flame treated + topcoat systems, low bake or Flame treated + primer + topcoat systems, low 
bake. Flame treated (GMW16133) and bake with an approved topcoat (e.g. 9984836, 9984861, 9984862, 
9984901, 9984904) or with an approved primer (e.g.; 9984815, 9984824) plus topcoat (e.g.; 9984836, 
9984861, 9984862, 9984901, 9984904). 
3.2.1.2 Interior paint bake charts are stored in the GM Materials File, MATSPC, or held by the regional 
Materials Engineer responsible for interior paint raw material approval. 
Copyright General Motors Company 
Provided by IHS under license with General Motors Company
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2012 General Motors Company All Rights Reserved 
March 2012 
Page 3 of 30 
 
3.2.2 Additional Requirements for Exterior. 
3.2.2.1 Reprocessing. Defined as running a previously finished part through the Original Equipment 
Manufacturer (OEM) process. The reprocessing must agree with the Material Data Sheet and recommendation 
from the Paint Material Supplier. The following must be followed at a minimum for all part reprocesses. 
3.2.2.1.1 All reprocessed parts must meet all the requirements stated in this specification and all other 
specifications and requirements listed on the engineering drawing. 
3.2.2.1.2 Sanding to substrate is not allowed. Sanding is allowed on the topcoat system to remove surface 
imperfections or defects. Documentation of sanding process is required. 
3.2.2.1.3 Clearcoat over Clearcoat and Adhesion Promoter over Adhesion Promoter is not permitted. 
3.2.2.1.4 Topcoats and color keyed or color specific primers are to be repaired with the same OEM or two-tone 
color only, specified by the GM color code number, for example WA6502 (i.e., white over white, red over red, 
etc.) 
3.2.2.1.5 The maximum number of reprocess applications is two for primer and two for topcoat as given in 
Table 1. 
For GM Europe and GM Holden, multiple coatings are defined for maximum one single over-painting of the 
complete paint system. Multiple coatings are not permissible for original equipment parts and parts for after 
sales service. 
Exception: Multiple coatings for original equipment parts are only permissible, if the coloring is acceptable. No 
adverse changes are permissible. 
 
Table 1: Reprocessing Requirements 
Paint Layer 
Number of OEM 
Applications 
Maximum Reprocess 
Applications 
Maximum Number 
of Bakes 
Maximum Total Film 
Build (of Given Paint 
Layer) 
Primer 
1 
2 
3 
100  (4 mil) 
Topcoat 
1 
2 
3 
225  (9 mil) 
Total 
2 
4 
6 
325  (13 mil) 
 
3.2.2.1.6 A part may see a total of six heat cycles in paint and a total of seven heat cycles including post-cure. 
3.2.2.1.7 All film builds must meet the minimum requirements specified on the engineering drawing and the 
maximum requirements given in Table 2 unless otherwise specified. 
 
Table 2: Maximum Film Builds 
Layer 
Maximum Film Build 
Primer 
100  (4 mil) 
Topcoat 
225  (9 mil) 
 
3.2.2.2 Spot repair is not a GM approved process for painted parts (except for sheet molding compound 
(SMC)). 
3.2.2.2.1 Unless otherwise agreed, SMC must be repaired to meet the requirements in GM9233P. 
3.2.3 For Interior Reprocessing. Defined as running a previously finished part through the original (OEM) 
process. The reprocessing must agree with the Material Data Sheet and recommendation from the Paint 
Material Supplier. 
The following must be followed at a minimum for all part reprocesses: 
3.2.3.1 The maximum number of reprocess applications is one for primer and one for topcoat. 
3.2.3.2 All reprocessed parts must meet all the requirements stated in this specification and all other 
specifications and requirements listed on the engineering drawing. 
Copyright General Motors Company 
Provided by IHS under license with General Motors Company
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2012 General Motors Company All Rights Reserved 
March 2012 
Page 4 of 30 
 
3.2.3.3 Sanding to substrate is not allowed. Sanding is allowed on the topcoat system to remove surface 
imperfections or defects. Documentation of sanding process is required. 
3.2.4 For Exterior Components with Paint Over Chrome. Components that are chrome plated and 
subsequently painted must be painted with a topcoat system that is approved to either 9984308 or 
GMW16554. 
3.2.5 For Interior Components with Paint Over Chrome. Components that are chrome plated and 
subsequently painted must be painted with a topcoat that is approved to GMW16554 or 9984260, and meets 
the requirements of GMW14867 - fogging, oven age at 105 °C, odor, Xenon and sunscreen. 
3.3 Conditions. 
3.3.1 Environmental Conditions. Not applicable. 
3.3.2 Test Conditions. Deviations from the requirements of this standard shall have been agreed upon. Such 
requirements shall be specified on component drawings, test certificates, reports, etc. Tests shall be 
conducted using the latest issue of the test procedures indicated. 
Unless otherwise specified, painted samples shall be subjected to the testing after a minimum aging period of 
72 h following the baking or drying cycle. A shorter aging period may be used, provided it is recognized that 
this represents a more severe condition of test and that results obtained at different aging times under 72 h are 
not a good basis for comparing the relative performance characteristics of paint finishes. 
3.4 Instructions. Figure 1 depicts the APOPS approval process. Parts furnished for APOPS approval shall 
meet the test requirements as shown in the appropriate table for the component application. 
3.4.1 Component Testing/APOPS - for Painted Exterior, Painted Interior, and Painted Engine 
Compartment Components. Component testing is to be performed for the production part per Table A1A for 
exterior, Table A1B for exterior components with paint over chrome, Table A3 for engine compartment 
components, and Table A4 for interior trim components (including paint over chrome). This testing is required 
for APOPS approval. Each molder/painter must have APOPS approval for each combination of 
substrate/paint/paint process. Once the molder/painter has APOPS approval for a given combination of 
substrate/paint/paint process, this approval may also be used for other components that use the same 
combination of substrate/paint/paint process. If any changes are made in the substrate, paint, or paint process, 
APOPS testing on components must be repeated and reviewed with the appropriate GM Engineer. 
Additionally, PPAP testing must be completed for each unique part. 
Note: The APOPS process is not applicable for skinned polyurethane parts. See 4.2.3 on PPAP requirements. 
3.4.1.1 All specimens for testing must be obtained from parts that have been molded, painted and processed 
using the same equipment, tools, materials, processing conditions and manufacturing locations that will be 
used to manufacture production parts for vehicle assembly. If regrind is allowed, all specimens for testing must 
be obtained from production parts that are made from the maximum allowable regrind as stated on the 
drawing. 
3.4.1.2 Each test must be completed on a minimum of three samples, each obtained from separate parts 
(except fascias - see 3.4.1.3). 
3.4.1.3 For fascia systems, triplicate samples need not be obtained from three separate fascias due to the size 
and cost of fascias. In this case, three samples may be taken from different locations on the same part. See 
Figure 2 for example of testing locations. Since fascias vary in design, see responsible GM Materials Engineer 
if assistance is needed in choosing the locations. 
3.4.1.4 For Exterior, testing shall be performed in two colors: White and Light Metallic for original non-repaired 
parts. If the color palette contains a Tricoat (such as Bright White Diamond), that color must be tested in 
addition to the two standard colors. If the two standard colors are not contained in the color palette, the GM 
Materials Engineer may approve substitutions. 
3.4.1.4.1 Testing to Table A1A must also be performed on a reprocessed part in White only. For General 
Motors North America (GMNA), test on a part that has seen two primer reprocesses and two topcoat 
reprocesses (example: primer-bake, primer-bake, primer-bake, topcoat-bake, topcoat-bake, topcoat-bake - six 
paint layers). For General Motors Europe (GME) and General Motors Holden (GMH), only one primer 
reprocess and one topcoat reprocess is to be tested (primer-bake, topcoat-bake, primer-bake, topcoat-bake - 
four paint layers). If white is not contained in the color palette, use the color with the highest film build. 
3.4.1.5 For Interior, testing shall be performed in each production color for the application. 
Copyright General Motors Company 
Provided by IHS under license with 

GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2012 General Motors Company All Rights Reserved 
March 2012 
Page 5 of 30 
 
3.4.1.6 All bakes are to be those of the production system and must fall within the GM Paint approved bake 
charts for each layer. 
3.4.1.7 All coating thicknesses must be in accordance to material requirements as specified on the part 
drawing notes or in the math file. All coating thicknesses must be measured and reported. 
3.4.1.8 Exterior Parts which are source primed and subsequently top coated at assembly plants shall be 
capable of accepting the topcoat paint system and meeting the requirements specified with both prime only 
and with both topcoat and prime. See responsible GM Materials Engineer to confirm test requirements for 
APOPS on primed parts, and to determine the number of parts to be top coated and to coordinate the top 
coating of the parts in the assembly plant. 
3.4.1.9 When this testing is completed, the tested specimens cut from the parts and test report will be reviewed 
by the responsible GM Materials Engineer and entered into the APOPS database. 
Note: Full APOPS approval may be given at this time depending on test results. 
3.5 Data. Not applicable. 
3.6 Safety. This standard may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This standard does 
not propose to address all the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this 
standard to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory 
limitations prior to use. Suitable precautions should be taken to ensure that applicable safe limits are not 
exceeded when conducting test procedures, processes and/or handling the materials required by this 
specification. 
3.7 Documentation. Samples of components or material released to this standard shall be tested for 
conformity with the requirements of this standard and approved by the responsible GM department prior to the 
start of delivery of production level components or materials. 
Any change to the component or material, e.g., design, function, properties, manufacturing process and/or 
location of manufacture requires a new release of the product. 
3.7.1 Changes in Processing. After the initial APOPS has been established, any change in processing 
parameters as recorded on Table A6 or A7, Paint Processing Data Form, requires evaluation with the 
responsible GM Materials Engineer. It is the sole responsibility of the supplier to provide the customer, 
unsolicited, with documentation of any change or modification to the product/process, and to apply for a new 
release and/or APOPS approval. 
Unless otherwise agreed to, the entire verification test shall be repeated and documented by the supplier prior 
to start of delivery of the modified or changed product. In some cases, a shorter test can be agreed to between 
the responsible GM department and the supplier. 
3.7.2 Test Results. Test reports shall be written per the Requirements for Test Report in ISO/IEC 17025. 
Additionally, a test report that contains all of the requirements listed in 3.7.2.1 to 3.7.2.17 shall be submitted to 
the GM Materials Engineer (reference Table A14, APOPS Checklist). 
3.7.2.1 Table A13, APOPS Request Form; if requested by GM Materials Engineer. 
3.7.2.2 A copy of the Registration or Scope of Accreditation for each test facility that provided data. 
3.7.2.3 Table A6 or A7, Paint Processing Data Form completed and signed by paint facility management. 
3.7.2.4 Table A8, A9 or A10, GM APOPS Test Data Form completed (Table A8 for Exterior, Table A9 for 
Interior or Table A10 for Underhood). Enlarge as required. A subset of the tests on this form may be used to 
report PPAP data. 
3.7.2.5 Copy of material requirements as listed in part drawing notes from the latest print or math file. 
3.7.2.6 Signed documentation of the percent regrind on parts tested. 
3.7.2.7 Datapaq or equivalent indicating part surface temperature versus time for all paint bakes including 
post-cure. 
3.7.2.8 Schematic indicating the location of part where Film Build was taken. This includes reprocessed parts. 
3.7.2.9 Paint film thickness per ISO 2808 on each part that is used to cut test specimens. Measure a minimum 
of four areas on each part; report each measurement. More than four areas may be required due to part 
design. See the responsible Materials Engineer for a definition of the number and placement of the areas 
required. Report the thickness of each paint layer (i.e., primer, topcoat). 
Copyright General Motors Company 
Provided by IHS under license with General Motors Company
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2012 General Motors Company All Rights Reserved 
March 2012 
Page 6 of 30 
 
3.7.2.9.1 For interior and underhood parts, a minimum of three parts in a minimum of three locations per part, 
dependent upon part size, shall be measured (if not using a shim). Individual measurement locations will be 
indicated with a schematic as well as individual readings and the average of the measurements shall be 
reported. (See Note 5 in Table A3 or A4 for details on how to measure film build.) 
3.7.2.10 GM9620M Film Build Chart for each coating (if applicable, in accordance with part drawing notes or 
math file). (Not applicable for Interior coatings.) 
3.7.2.11 A GM approved and signed bake chart for each coating. 
3.7.2.12 Schematic indicating the location on the part from which the test plaques were obtained. See Figure 2 
for example of a fascia schematic. 
3.7.2.13 White parts reprocess twice for reprocess validation. (Not applicable for interior coatings.) 
3.7.2.14 Signed documentation of the reprocess procedure used by the painted part supplier. 
3.7.2.15 Signed documentation of the sanding process procedure used by the painted part supplier. 
3.7.2.16 Tested parts for review by the responsible GM Materials Engineer (see 3.3). 
3.7.2.17 All tested samples shall be retained by the supplier for review by the appropriate GM Materials 
Engineer at least until APOPS approval is obtained. 
4 Requirements and Procedure 
4.1 Component Testing/APOPS. (See 3.4.1.) Perform testing on components as indicated in the appropriate 
table. 
4.2 PPAP Testing. Reference Table A15 – PPAP Checklist. 
4.2.1 Exterior Components. Perform testing on all program colors as indicated in Table A5 for components, 
unless otherwise noted by the GM Materials Engineer (additional testing/Table A1A or A1B testing may be 
required). A printout of the APOPS approval will be required with the PPAP package. If a new part has the 
same substrate, paint, paint process, molder and painter as a previous part that is already APOPS approved 
(i.e., only geometry is unique), then only Table A5 testing is required for PPAP and a printout of the previous 
part’s APOPS approval will be required with the PPAP package. 
4.2.2 Interior Components. Perform testing on all program colors as indicated in Table A4 for components, 
unless otherwise noted by the GM Materials Engineer (additional testing may be required). A printout of the 
APOPS approval will be required with the PPAP package. If a new part has all the same colors, substrate, 
paint, paint process, molder and painter as a previous part that is already APOPS approved (i.e., only 
geometry is unique), then only Table A12 testing is required for PPAP and a printout of the previous part’s 
APOPS approval will be required with the PPAP package. All new colors not previously APOPS reviewed 
require Table A4. 
4.2.3 Polyurethane Skinned Components. Perform testing as indicated in Table A2 for PPAP. APOPS 
approval does not apply. 
4.2.4 Engine Compartment Components. Perform testing on all program colors as indicated in Table A3, 
unless otherwise noted by the GM Materials Engineer (additional testing may be required). A printout of the 
APOPS approval will be required with the PPAP package. 
4.3 Daily Quality Control Testing. Testing as stated in this specification, at a minimum, is to be followed 
unless otherwise noted by GM Supplier Quality or in the Statement of Requirements. All tests as listed in 
Table A11 or Table A12 must be run every shift on one color that is run for that particular shift. Colors must be 
randomized. Report the daily test data and date. 
A Datapaq or equivalent part temperature chart recorder must be run a minimum of one time per day per oven. 
To ensure that each oven is consistent from shift to shift, the Datapaq or equivalent charts must be taken on 
alternating shifts. For example: Monday - Shift 1, Tuesday - Shift 2, Wednesday - Shift 1, etc. 
4.4 Weekly Quality Control Testing. Testing as stated in this specification, at a minimum, is to be followed 
unless otherwise noted by GM Supplier Quality or in the Statement of Requirements. All tests as listed in Table 
A11 or A12 must be run once per week on every color run that particular week. Report the weekly test data 
and date. 
4.5 Additional Requirements. The following requirements must be met at the specified frequencies. Any 
painted part supplier to GM must keep records of the following activities and be able to provide them for review 
at any time. No aging period is required for quality control samples. A quality control plan will be developed 
Copyright General Motors Company 
Provided by IHS under license with General Motors Company
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2012 General Motors Company All Rights Reserved 
March 2012 
Page 7 of 30 
 
with every supplier for every part to determine the areas of the part in which the tests need to be performed. All 
bakes must comply with the GM approved bake charts. Table A11 and A12 have requirements for each quality 
control test. 
 
Figure 1: Overall APOPS Process 
 
New Substrate Material
•Test material properties to 
appropriate GMWXXXXX 
specification 
•Test paintability of 
material per GMW16172
New Paint Material
Tested to 
GMWXXXXX or
998XXXX
Approved Substrates
are entered into 
MATSPC database 
and marked as 
“paintable”
Purpose:
To Generically
Approve New 
Substrates and
New Paints.
Raw Material Testing:
Performed by
Raw Material &
Paint Suppliers
Raw Material Approvals:
Performed by
GM Engineers
Example:
- TPO
- Polyester
- SMC
Approved Paints 
are entered into 
MATSPC database
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Note:  New paint 
colors must also 
be approved 
through 
appropriate GM 
specifications.  
APOPS Testing:
To be Performed 
by Part Supplier
APOPS Approvals:
To be Performed by 
GM Materials
Engineers
Substrate/Paint Combination is Tested 
on Production Parts Using Exact
Production Processing System 
(See sections 3.3 & 4.1)
Production-Specific 
Source is Approved in 
APOPS Database
Purpose:
To verify 
performance of 
substrate/paint 
combination 
using exact 
production 
process
Note:  APOPS 
Approval is 
required for 
PPAP.
Copyright General Motors Company 
Provided by IHS under license with General Motors Company
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2012 General Motors Company All Rights Reserved 
March 2012 
Page 8 of 30 
 
 
Figure 2: Fascia Example Location 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Initial Adhesion Entire Surface Crosshatch (Exterior) 
 
 
Copyright General Motors Company 
Provided by IHS under license with General Motors Company
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2012 General Motors Company All Rights Reserved 
March 2012 
Page 9 of 30 
 
5 Provisions for Shipping 
5.1 Source Shipment Responsibility. It will be the responsibility of the supplier to insure that the material is 
not exposed to temperatures during shipment which would cause the material to fail to meet any of the 
requirements of this specification. 
6 Rules and Regulations 
6.1 Legal Regulations. All materials must satisfy applicable laws, rules, regulations and recommendations 
valid in the country of usage. 
6.2 Language. In the event of conflict between the English and domestic language, the English language shall 
take precedence. 
6.3 Inspection and Rejection. Samples of components or materials released to a GM material specification 
shall be tested for conformity with the requirements of this material specification and approved by the 
responsible Engineering department prior to commencement of delivery of bulk supplies. 
A new approval must be received for any changes, e.g., properties, manufacturing process, location of 
manufacture, etc. If not otherwise agreed, all testing and documentation normally required for initial release 
must be completed. 
It is the responsibility of the supplier to inform the customer in a timely manner, without solicitation, and to 
include documentation of all modifications of materials and/or processes and to apply for a new release. 
If not otherwise agreed, all release tests shall be repeated and documented by the supplier prior to 
commencement of delivery of non-conforming bulk supplies. In individual cases, a shorter test can be agreed 
to between the responsible Engineering department and the supplier. 
6.4 Initial Source Approval. No shipments shall be made by any supplier until representative initial production 
samples have been approved by the appropriate Materials Engineering department(s) as meeting the 
requirements of this specification. 
6.5 Material Safety Data Sheets/Safety Data Sheets (MSDS/SDS). For new product submissions, or when a 
change in chemical composition of an existing product has occurred, a complete copy of the Material Safety 
Data Sheet/Safety Data Sheet must be submitted in compliance with the Globally Harmonized System of 
Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) requirements or other country-specific MSDS/SDS 
requirements. In addition, product MSDS/SDS submissions must be in compliance with specific country 
General Motors TMC003 Material Safety Data Sheet/Safety Data Sheet guidance documents where available. 
6.6 All materials supplied to this standard must comply with the requirements of GMW3059, Restricted and 
Reportable Substances for Parts. 
6.7 Certificate of Analysis. The supplier shall be responsible for submitting a Certificate of Analysis with each 
batch of material arriving at a plant. This document shall be prepared and provide data in accordance with the 
requirements detailed in GM4389M. 
6.8 Parts for Aftersales Service. Parts for aftersales service shall be primed. Completely coated Parts for 
aftersales service shall fulfill the requirements to GMW14797. 
7 Approved Sources 
Engineering qualifications of an approved source are required for this standard. Only sources listed in the GM 
Materials File MATSPC under this standard number have been qualified by Engineering as meeting the 
requirements of this standard. 
8 Notes 
8.1 Glossary. 
MATSPC: Global repository of GM approved materials for corresponding GM Engineering Standards. 
PGC: Perceived gloss of 2 (Low Gloss) when measured at 60 degrees gloss on flat, ungrained samples. 
Reprocessing: Running a previously finished part through the original equipment manufacturer (OEM) 
process. 
Copyright General Motors Company 
Provided by IHS under license with General Motors Company
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14797 
 
© Copyright 2012 General Motors Company All Rights Reserved 
March 2012 
Page 10 of 30 
 
8.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. 
APOPS 
Approved Paint on Parts 
DRE 
Design Release Engineer 
DUNS 
Dun and Bradstreet 
GHS 
Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals 
GME 
General Motors Europe 
GMH 
General Motors Holden 
GMNA 
General Motors North America 
L/D 
Ratio of Screw Length/Diameter 
MAI 
Multi-axial Impact 
mil 
Thousandths of an inch 
MSDS 
Material Safety Data Sheet 
OEM 
Original Equipment Manufacturer 
PGC 
Perceived gloss of 2 (Low Gloss) (see Glossary 8.1 for definition) 
PMETS 
Paint Materials Engineering Technical Specialist 
PPAP 
Production Part Approval Process 
PUR 
Polyurethane 
RIM 
Reaction Injection Molding 
SDS 
Safety Data Sheet 
SLE 
Supplier Liaison Engineer 
SMC 
Sheet Molding Compound 
SPEC 
Specification 
TPO 
Thermoplastic Polyolefin 
9 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other documents, drawings, etc., as follows: 
GMW14797 
10 Release and Revisions 
This standard was originated in November 2005. It was first approved by the Materials Engineering Group in 
November 2006. It was first published in April 2007. 
Issue  
Publication Date 
Description (Organization) 
1 
APR 2007 
Initial publication. 
2 
OCT 2009 
Major changes to entire document. (Global Materials and Corrosion Team) 
3 
MAR 2012 
Added requirements for paint over chrome for exterior components; revisions 
to interior and underhood requirements. (Finishes and Coatings Global 
Subsystem Leadership Team) 
 
 
 
Copyright General Motors Company 
Provided by IHS under license with General Motors Company
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,,,,````-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
