# ISO 17872-2007 色漆和清漆在腐蚀测试用金属板涂层上划线标记的入门指南.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
Reference number
ISO 17872:2007(E)
© ISO 2007
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL 
STANDARD 
ISO
17872
First edition
2007-03-01
Paints and varnishes — Guidelines for 
the introduction of scribe marks through 
coatings on metallic panels for corrosion 
testing 
Peintures et vernis — Lignes directrices pour la production de rayures 
au travers du revêtement de panneaux métalliques en vue des essais 
de corrosion 
 
 
A&I-Normenabonnement - Siemens AG - Kd.-Nr.986345 - Abo-Nr.00851257/006/001 - 2007-03-22 07:22:13


ISO 17872:2007(E) 
PDF disclaimer 
This PDF file may contain embedded typefaces. In accordance with Adobe's licensing policy, this file may be printed or viewed but 
shall not be edited unless the typefaces which are embedded are licensed to and installed on the computer performing the editing. In 
downloading this file, parties accept therein the responsibility of not infringing Adobe's licensing policy. The ISO Central Secretariat 
accepts no liability in this area. 
Adobe is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated. 
Details of the software products used to create this PDF file can be found in the General Info relative to the file; the PDF-creation 
parameters were optimized for printing. Every care has been taken to ensure that the file is suitable for use by ISO member bodies. In 
the unlikely event that a problem relating to it is found, please inform the Central Secretariat at the address given below. 
 
©   ISO 2007 
All rights reserved. Unless otherwise specified, no part of this publication may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, 
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and microfilm, without permission in writing from either ISO at the address below or 
ISO's member body in the country of the requester. 
ISO copyright office 
Case postale 56 • CH-1211 Geneva 20 
Tel.  + 41 22 749 01 11 
Fax  + 41 22 749 09 47 
E-mail  copyright@iso.org 
Web  www.iso.org 
Published in Switzerland 
 
ii 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved
 
 
 
A&I-Normenabonnement - Siemens AG - Kd.-Nr.986345 - Abo-Nr.00851257/006/001 - 2007-03-22 07:22:13
标准分享网 www.bzfxw.com 免费下载


ISO 17872:2007(E) 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved 
iii
Contents 
Page 
Foreword............................................................................................................................................................ iv 
Introduction ........................................................................................................................................................ v 
1 
Scope ..................................................................................................................................................... 1 
2 
Scribe marks ......................................................................................................................................... 1 
3 
Apparatus .............................................................................................................................................. 3 
4 
Test panels ............................................................................................................................................ 3 
5 
Procedure .............................................................................................................................................. 3 
6 
Shape verification of cross-section.................................................................................................... 4 
7 
Report .................................................................................................................................................... 4 
Annex A (informative)  Scribing tools ............................................................................................................... 5 
Annex B (informative)  Determination of shape and dimensions of scribe marks made using 
common scribing tools ........................................................................................................................ 8 
Bibliography ..................................................................................................................................................... 10 
 
 
A&I-Normenabonnement - Siemens AG - Kd.-Nr.986345 - Abo-Nr.00851257/006/001 - 2007-03-22 07:22:13


ISO 17872:2007(E) 
iv 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved
 
Foreword 
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies 
(ISO member bodies). The work of preparing International Standards is normally carried out through ISO 
technical committees. Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical committee has been 
established has the right to be represented on that committee. International organizations, governmental and 
non-governmental, in liaison with ISO, also take part in the work. ISO collaborates closely with the 
International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) on all matters of electrotechnical standardization. 
International Standards are drafted in accordance with the rules given in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2. 
The main task of technical committees is to prepare International Standards. Draft International Standards 
adopted by the technical committees are circulated to the member bodies for voting. Publication as an 
International Standard requires approval by at least 75 % of the member bodies casting a vote. 
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent 
rights. ISO shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights. 
ISO 17872 was prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 35, Paints and varnishes, Subcommittee SC 9, 
General test methods for paints and varnishes. 
 
A&I-Normenabonnement - Siemens AG - Kd.-Nr.986345 - Abo-Nr.00851257/006/001 - 2007-03-22 07:22:13
标准分享网 www.bzfxw.com 免费下载


ISO 17872:2007(E) 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved 
v
Introduction 
Many International Standards deal with corrosion testing, where scribe marks are introduced through a 
coating to a metallic substrate. However, the method of scribe-mark introduction (scribing pattern, tools, etc.) 
is not standardized across these standards. 
The main purposes of an intentionally inflicted damage in a coating prior to corrosion testing are as follows: 
a) 
to simulate and to investigate how a specific type of damage behaves during exposure; 
b) 
to obtain an accelerated response during a corrosion test, e.g. at quality control during production; 
c) 
to investigate the general durability of a coating by observation of the rate of corrosion spread after 
exposure. 
Preliminary investigations have shown that several variants, both in terms of shape and dimensions, of 
scribing tools are used. This variation occurs both across countries and within countries. The effect of using 
different tools is the production of scribe marks with different cross-sectional shape, depth and exposed metal 
area. These differences will greatly affect test results obtained during corrosion tests, as the intention of 
introducing scribe marks into a coating system is such that oxygen and the electrolyte present during 
exposure testing can obtain access to a well-defined and active metal surface. 
The actual method used to introduce a scribe mark depends on the coating type and thickness. However, in 
all cases it is preferable if the cross-section is as smooth as possible, the metallic substrate is exposed evenly 
and no coating remains on the exposed substrate. Additionally, it is desirable that scribing methods are 
consistent across related International Standards. 
The scribing method greatly affects how the corrosion process occurs and the reproducibility when tests are 
repeated under the same conditions. In order to obtain anticorrosive results with high accuracy and 
reproducibility, accurate and consistent scribing is required. 
 
A&I-Normenabonnement - Siemens AG - Kd.-Nr.986345 - Abo-Nr.00851257/006/001 - 2007-03-22 07:22:13


 
A&I-Normenabonnement - Siemens AG - Kd.-Nr.986345 - Abo-Nr.00851257/006/001 - 2007-03-22 07:22:13
标准分享网 www.bzfxw.com 免费下载


INTERNATIONAL STANDARD 
ISO 17872:2007(E)
 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved 
1
Paints and varnishes — Guidelines for the introduction of 
scribe marks through coatings on metallic panels for corrosion 
testing 
1 
Scope 
This International Standard describes methods of scribing coated steel or test-pieces for corrosion tests, 
where the coating system is applied at dry film thicknesses of less than 500 µm. It is intended as a guideline 
only, being based on the results of a collaborative trial with no subsequent corrosion testing having been 
carried out to determine the suitability of the introduced scribe marks for such tests. 
This International Standard covers the scribing of metallic panels or test pieces made from 
⎯ steel, 
⎯ chemically treated steel, 
⎯ aluminium or aluminium alloy, and 
⎯ chemically treated aluminium. 
It does not cover the scribing of galvanized or electroplated metal or clad aluminium panels. 
2 
Scribe marks 
If not otherwise agreed or specified, a scribe mark is made as an X-shape, T-shape or single-line, through the 
coating to the metal substrate according to the agreed conditions. Examples of X-shaped, T-shaped and a 
single-line scribe mark are given in Figure 1. Typically, the suitable length of the scribed lines is in the range of 
50 mm to 70 mm, depending on the coating thickness and the expected amount of corrosion. 
The length of the scribe mark should be significantly more than the expected creep resulting from the 
corrosion test carried out. 
The width of the scribe mark can also affect the result of a corrosion test. The smaller the width, the stronger 
is the tendency for the exposed metal surface to be passivated by deposition of sparingly soluble corrosion 
products. It is therefore important to select a scribing tool which will provide a suitable scribe width for the 
corrosion test being carried out. 
The orientation of the scribed lines is often significant in terms of affecting corrosion test results. On panels 
with a slight inclination from the vertical, e.g. for salt-spray tests, more salt is collected in a horizontally 
exposed scribe mark. Also, a horizontally exposed scribe mark will generate an even salt distribution, whereas 
a diagonal, or more particularly a vertical, scribe mark tends to generate a gradient, with an increasing amount 
of salt along the lower edge of the scribe mark. An increased amount of salt usually leads to an increased 
corrosion rate, but on coated steel, high salt concentration might have an inhibiting effect on corrosion since 
the formed corrosion products are very dense. 
The cross-section of the scribe mark should be as uniform as possible along its entire length. The coating 
should be cut smoothly along the direction of the scribe mark. The cross-sectional shape of the scribe may be 
either “V” or “U” shaped, depending upon the tool used, and should be such that for a “V”-shaped cut a > b > c 
and for a “U”-shaped cut a > b, with the width (b) of both “V” and “U” shapes such that b W 0,2 mm (see 
Figure 2 for an explanation of the symbols). Certain scribing tools may also produce a rectangular cross-
section, where a, b and c are approximately equal. 
NOTE 
The shape, depth and uniformity of scribe marks resulting from the use of manual scribing tools will also 
depend on the operator carrying out the scribing procedure. To reduce this operator dependency, and hence variability in 
 
A&I-Normenabonnement - Siemens AG - Kd.-Nr.986345 - Abo-Nr.00851257/006/001 - 2007-03-22 07:22:13


ISO 17872:2007(E) 
2 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved
 
subsequent corrosion test results, automatic scribing machines may also be used to introduce scribe marks, provided they 
produce a scribe mark which penetrates to the substrate. Such machines are able to introduce rectangular shaped scribe 
marks, where the dimensions a, b and c are approximately equal and each is greater than 0,5 mm. 
 
Dimensions in millimetres
 
a)   X-shape 
 
b)   T-shape 
 
c)   Single line 
Figure 1 — Surface shape of scribe marks on coated panels 
 
A&I-Normenabonnement - Siemens AG - Kd.-Nr.986345 - Abo-Nr.00851257/006/001 - 2007-03-22 07:22:13
标准分享网 www.bzfxw.com 免费下载


ISO 17872:2007(E) 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved 
3
 
a)   “V”-shaped cut 
b)   “U”-shaped cut 
Key 
1 
coating 
2 
substrate 
 
a 
width of scribe mark at surface of coating 
b 
width of scribe mark at coating/substrate boundary 
c 
width of scribe mark at maximum penetration into substrate 
d 
penetration of scribe mark into substrate 
Figure 2 — Cross-sectional shape of scribe mark through a coating 
3 
Apparatus 
3.1 
Scribing tool, see Annex A. 
3.2 
Metal rule, to aid the introduction of a straight scribe mark of the specified length. 
3.3 
Microscope, with ×25 magnification lens (see Clause 6). 
3.4 
Magnification lens, ×5 to ×10 magnification, to visually ensure uniformity of the scribe and removal of 
debris (see Clause 5). 
4 
Test panels 
Use a coated panel (or test piece) appropriate for carrying out the corrosion-resistance test. 
5 
Procedure 
Ensure that the test panel is firmly secured while the scribe mark is being introduced to ensure uniform 
location and to prevent panel/tool slippage. 
Use the scribing tool to introduce the scribe mark through the coating to the metallic substrate. When scribing, 
use the metal rule to guide the scribing tool and use a continuous scribing action with uniform speed. Take 
care not to damage the surrounding coating whilst introducing the scribe mark. 
It is preferable that the scribe mark be introduced through the coating to the metal substrate in one smooth 
action. If this is not possible (see Annex B, Table B.2), it is recommended that actions should be repeated 
taking care to follow the cross-section of the previous actions. This should be recorded in the test report. An 
automated scribing machine may be used to achieve penetration to the metal substrate in a single action. 
 
A&I-Normenabonnement - Siemens AG - Kd.-Nr.986345 - Abo-Nr.00851257/006/001 - 2007-03-22 07:22:13


ISO 17872:2007(E) 
4 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved
 
New scribing tools can be very sharp and it is recommended that they be conditioned prior to use on test-
pieces by carrying out at least 10 scribes. The scribing tool can become blunt with use and therefore the 
blade/point should be regularly inspected and sharpened or replaced periodically. 
The edges of the scribe mark should be uniform and should completely penetrate the coating. Remove debris 
from the scribed mark. 
NOTE 
Ensuring uniformity of the scribe mark and complete removal of debris may be aided by viewing with a ×5 to 
×10 magnification lens. 
6 
Shape verification of cross-section 
If shape verification of the scribe mark is required, use a microscope with ×25 magnification lens (see 
Annex B). 
7 
Report 
A report of the procedure used for scribing should be prepared, including at least the following information: 
a) 
all information necessary for identification of the sample tested, including 
⎯ details of substrate material, and surface preparation prior to coating, and 
⎯ all details necessary to identify the coating system tested; 
b) 
a reference to this International Standard (ISO 17872:2007); 
c) 
a reference to the International Standard by which the scribed panels will be tested; 
d) 
details of coating thickness; 
e) 
the scribing tool used; 
f) 
the shape and dimensions of the scribe mark; 
g) 
the orientation of the scribe mark during the test; 
h) 
any deviations from the procedure specified; 
i) 
any unusual features (anomalies) observed during the test; 
j) 
the date the scribe was made. 
 
 
A&I-Normenabonnement - Siemens AG - Kd.-Nr.986345 - Abo-Nr.00851257/006/001 - 2007-03-22 07:22:13
标准分享网 www.bzfxw.com 免费下载
