# ISO 4628-6-2007 涂料和清漆.漆膜降解的评定.缺陷的量值和大小以及外观均匀变化强度的规定.第6部分用胶带方法评定粉化等级.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference number
ISO 4628-6:2007(E)
© ISO 2007
 
 
INTERNATIONAL 
STANDARD 
ISO
4628-6
Second edition
2007-02-01
Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of 
degradation of coatings — Designation of 
quantity and size of defects, and of 
intensity of uniform changes in 
appearance — 
Part 6: 
Assessment of degree of chalking by 
tape method 
Peintures et vernis — Évaluation de la dégradation des revêtements — 
Désignation de la quantité et de la dimension des défauts, et de 
l'intensité des changements uniformes d'aspect — 
Partie 6: Évaluation du degré de farinage par la méthode du ruban 
adhésif 
 


ISO 4628-6:2007(E) 
PDF disclaimer 
This PDF file may contain embedded typefaces. In accordance with Adobe's licensing policy, this file may be printed or viewed but 
shall not be edited unless the typefaces which are embedded are licensed to and installed on the computer performing the editing. In 
downloading this file, parties accept therein the responsibility of not infringing Adobe's licensing policy. The ISO Central Secretariat 
accepts no liability in this area. 
Adobe is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated. 
Details of the software products used to create this PDF file can be found in the General Info relative to the file; the PDF-creation 
parameters were optimized for printing. Every care has been taken to ensure that the file is suitable for use by ISO member bodies. In 
the unlikely event that a problem relating to it is found, please inform the Central Secretariat at the address given below. 
 
©   ISO 2007 
All rights reserved. Unless otherwise specified, no part of this publication may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, 
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and microfilm, without permission in writing from either ISO at the address below or 
ISO's member body in the country of the requester. 
ISO copyright office 
Case postale 56 • CH-1211 Geneva 20 
Tel.  + 41 22 749 01 11 
Fax  + 41 22 749 09 47 
E-mail  copyright@iso.org 
Web  www.iso.org 
Published in Switzerland 
 
ii 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved
 
 


ISO 4628-6:2007(E) 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved 
iii
Foreword 
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies 
(ISO member bodies). The work of preparing International Standards is normally carried out through ISO 
technical committees. Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical committee has been 
established has the right to be represented on that committee. International organizations, governmental and 
non-governmental, in liaison with ISO, also take part in the work. ISO collaborates closely with the 
International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) on all matters of electrotechnical standardization. 
International Standards are drafted in accordance with the rules given in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2. 
The main task of technical committees is to prepare International Standards. Draft International Standards 
adopted by the technical committees are circulated to the member bodies for voting. Publication as an 
International Standard requires approval by at least 75 % of the member bodies casting a vote. 
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent 
rights. ISO shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights. 
ISO 4628-6 was prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 35, Paints and varnishes, Subcommittee SC 9, 
General test methods for paints and varnishes. 
This second edition cancels and replaces the first edition (ISO 4628-6:1990), which has been technically 
revised. The main changes are: 
⎯ the pictorial standards have been replaced with computer-generated pictures; 
⎯ pictorial standards for the evaluation on a white background have been added; 
⎯ half units have been introduced to the rating scale. 
ISO 4628 consists of the following parts, under the general title Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of 
degradation of coatings — Designation of quantity and size of defects, and of intensity of uniform changes in 
appearance: 
⎯ Part 1: General introduction and designation system 
⎯ Part 2: Assessment of degree of blistering 
⎯ Part 3: Assessment of degree of rusting 
⎯ Part 4: Assessment of degree of cracking 
⎯ Part 5: Assessment of degree of flaking 
⎯ Part 6: Assessment of degree of chalking by tape method 
⎯ Part 7: Assessment of degree of chalking by velvet method 
⎯ Part 8: Assessment of degree of delamination and corrosion around a scribe 
⎯ Part 10: Assessment of degree of filiform corrosion 


ISO 4628-6:2007(E) 
iv 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved
 
Introduction 
ISO 4628-1 defines the system for designating the quantity and size of defects and the intensity of uniform 
changes of coatings and outlines the general principles of the system. This system is intended to be used, in 
particular, for defects caused by ageing and weathering, and for uniform changes such as colour changes, for 
example yellowing. 
The other parts of ISO 4628 provide pictorial standards or other means for evaluating particular types of 
defect. As far as possible, already existing evaluation schemes have been used as the basis. 
 


INTERNATIONAL STANDARD 
ISO 4628-6:2007(E)
 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved 
1
Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of degradation of 
coatings — Designation of quantity and size of defects, and 
of intensity of uniform changes in appearance — 
Part 6: 
Assessment of degree of chalking by tape method 
IMPORTANT — For the assessment of the degree of chalking by the tape method, it is necessary to 
use the pictorial reference standards contained in this part of ISO 4628. Owing to the fact that 
electronic copies of these reference standards are subject to change when viewed on screen or 
printed, it is recommended that only the pictorial reference standards contained in printed copies of 
this part of ISO 4628 purchased from ISO or from ISO member bodies or their distributors be used 
when comparing test results. 
1 
Scope 
This part of ISO 4628 provides pictorial reference standards for designating the degree of chalking of paint 
coatings. It also describes a method by which the degree of chalking is rated. In using this method, it is 
essential that care be taken to distinguish between true degradation products and adhering dirt, particularly 
when chalking is slight. 
2 
Terms and definitions 
For the purposes of this document, the following terms and definitions apply. 
2.1 
chalking 
appearance of a loosely adherent fine powder on the surface of a paint coating, arising from the degradation 
of one or more of its constituents 
3 
Principle 
The chalking is removed from the coating under test using an adhesive tape. The chalking adhering to the 
tape is examined against a contrasting background (either black or white, whichever gives the greater 
contrast) and the degree of chalking is assessed with reference to a rating scale. 
4 
Materials 
4.1 
Self-adhesive tape, transparent, of width at least 15 mm. 
Commercially available flexible tapes, transparent and without perceptible colour, have been found to be 
satisfactory. However, the quality of the tape affects the rating obtained. The type of tape used shall therefore 
be agreed on between the interested parties and shall be stated in the test report. 
4.2 
Background, black or white, with matt finish, for example card, or velvet having a short pile without a 
tendency to be crushed. 


ISO 4628-6:2007(E) 
2 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved
 
5 
Procedure 
5.1 
Allow the surface to dry at room temperature before carrying out the test. 
Place a piece of the adhesive tape (4.1) on the dry coating by applying firm pressure and rubbing with a finger. 
The length of the tape should be at least 40 mm. 
Remove the tape perpendicular to the surface and lay it on a background (4.2) of the appropriate colour to 
give the greater contrast, with the adhesive in contact with the background. Assess light-coloured coatings on 
the black background and dark-coloured coatings on the white background. 
Under consistent illumination, immediately assess (see 5.5) the degree of chalking by comparing the amount 
of chalk on the tape with the pictorial reference standards in Figure 1 or Figure 2. The more background that is 
visible, the lower the rating. Report the illumination in the test report. 
5.2 
The degree of chalking may also be determined quantitatively using a suitable photoelectric instrument 
to compare the transmittance of the chalked tape with that of unused tape. In this procedure, the adhesive 
tape shall not be placed on a background (4.2) but on a clean glass slide or open support, which is placed in 
the optical beam of the instrument [2], [3].  
This instrumental method shall only be used if the pattern of chalking residues on the tape is homogeneous. 
5.3 
The degree of chalking can vary over a given area. On large areas with uniform surface (no texture), 
the determination should preferably be made at several locations and the mean and range reported.  
Apply the tape to an area of the panel that has not been used for previous measurements to avoid false 
readings. 
5.4 
Ratings obtained with coatings exposed to natural weathering shall be treated with caution as dirt 
deposited on the surface from the atmosphere can give false values of chalking. 
5.5 
After removing the chalking from the coating under test, the assessment of each piece of adhesive tape 
shall be carried out without delay because the appearance of the chalking residues on the adhesive tape and 
the transmittance of the tape might change with time. 
5.6 
When testing low-gloss paint coatings, a certain amount of chalking is observed even with unweathered 
panels. A blank test, carried out on an unweathered panel, is therefore recommended for such coatings. 
6 
Rating 
Rate the degree of chalking by reference to the pictorial standards shown in Figure 1 or Figure 2. 
NOTE 
The numerical values given correspond to those in ISO 4628-1 [1]. 
For textured surfaces, the rating shall be based on the observations of the most intensively chalked parts of 
the tape. 
7 
Test report 
The test report shall contain at least the following information: 
a) 
all information necessary for the identification of the sample tested; 
b) 
a reference to this International Standard (ISO 4628-6:2006); 


ISO 4628-6:2007(E) 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved 
3
c) 
details of the method used including 
⎯ the type of weathering (artificial or natural) of the coating, 
⎯ all details necessary for the identification of the adhesive tape used, including the manufacturer and 
name of the tape, 
⎯ all details necessary for the identification of the substrate used as background for the adhesive tape 
(see 4.2),  
⎯ the illumination used for the assessment; 
d) 
the results of the test, including 
⎯ the numerical rating of the degree of chalking,  
⎯ whether the evaluation was carried out visually or using an instrument (see 5.2); 
e) 
any deviations from the procedure specified; 
f) 
any unusual features (anomalies) observed during the test; 
g) 
the date of the test. 


ISO 4628-6:2007(E) 
4 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved
 
 
Figure 1 — Pictorial reference standards for numerical chalking ratings of 0,5 to 5,0 on a black 
background 


ISO 4628-6:2007(E) 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved 
5
 
Figure 2 — Pictorial reference standards for numerical chalking ratings of 0,5 to 5,0 on a white 
background 
 


ISO 4628-6:2007(E) 
6 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved
 
Bibliography 
[1] 
ISO 4628-1, Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of degradation of coatings — Designation of quantity 
and size of defects, and of intensity of uniform changes in appearance — Part 1: General introduction 
and designation system 
[2] 
HELMEN, T. Farbe und Lack, 84 (5), 1978, pp. 315-322 
[3] 
HELMEN, T. Farbe und Lack, 87 (3), 1981, pp. 181-189 
[4] 
JPIA, Standards for evaluation of paint films, 2003, pp. 6-1 to 6-5 
 
