# ISO 4628-8-2005 色漆和清漆.漆膜降解的评定.缺陷量值、大小以及外观均匀变化程度的规定.评定划痕周围的层离和腐蚀等级.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference number
ISO 4628-8:2005(E)
© ISO 2005
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL 
STANDARD 
ISO
4628-8
First edition
2005-03-01
Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of 
degradation of coatings — Designation of 
quantity and size of defects, and of 
intensity of uniform changes in 
appearance — 
Part 8: 
Assessment of degree of delamination 
and corrosion around a scribe 
Peintures et vernis — Évaluation de la dégradation des revêtements — 
Désignation de la quantité et de la dimension des défauts, et de 
l'intensité des changements uniformes d'aspect — 
Partie 8: Évaluation du degré de décollement et de corrosion autour 
d'une rayure 
 


ISO 4628-8:2005(E) 
PDF disclaimer 
This PDF file may contain embedded typefaces. In accordance with Adobe's licensing policy, this file may be printed or viewed but 
shall not be edited unless the typefaces which are embedded are licensed to and installed on the computer performing the editing. In 
downloading this file, parties accept therein the responsibility of not infringing Adobe's licensing policy. The ISO Central Secretariat 
accepts no liability in this area. 
Adobe is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated. 
Details of the software products used to create this PDF file can be found in the General Info relative to the file; the PDF-creation 
parameters were optimized for printing. Every care has been taken to ensure that the file is suitable for use by ISO member bodies. In 
the unlikely event that a problem relating to it is found, please inform the Central Secretariat at the address given below. 
 
©   ISO 2005 
All rights reserved. Unless otherwise specified, no part of this publication may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, 
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and microfilm, without permission in writing from either ISO at the address below or 
ISO's member body in the country of the requester. 
ISO copyright office 
Case postale 56 • CH-1211 Geneva 20 
Tel.  + 41 22 749 01 11 
Fax  + 41 22 749 09 47 
E-mail  copyright@iso.org 
Web  www.iso.org 
Published in Switzerland 
 
ii 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved
 
 


ISO 4628-8:2005(E) 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved 
iii
 
Contents 
Page 
Foreword............................................................................................................................................................ iv 
Introduction ........................................................................................................................................................ v 
1 
Scope...................................................................................................................................................... 1 
2 
Normative references ........................................................................................................................... 1 
3 
Terms and definitions........................................................................................................................... 1 
4 
Principle ................................................................................................................................................. 2 
5 
Procedure............................................................................................................................................... 2 
6 
Calculation and expression of results................................................................................................ 4 
7 
Test report.............................................................................................................................................. 5 
Bibliography ....................................................................................................................................................... 7 
 


ISO 4628-8:2005(E) 
iv 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved
 
Foreword 
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies 
(ISO member bodies). The work of preparing International Standards is normally carried out through ISO 
technical committees. Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical committee has been 
established has the right to be represented on that committee. International organizations, governmental and 
non-governmental, in liaison with ISO, also take part in the work. ISO collaborates closely with the 
International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) on all matters of electrotechnical standardization. 
International Standards are drafted in accordance with the rules given in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2. 
The main task of technical committees is to prepare International Standards. Draft International Standards 
adopted by the technical committees are circulated to the member bodies for voting. Publication as an 
International Standard requires approval by at least 75 % of the member bodies casting a vote. 
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent 
rights. ISO shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights. 
ISO 4628-8 was prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 35, Paints and varnishes, Subcommittee SC 9, 
General test methods for paints and varnishes. 
ISO 4628 consists of the following parts, under the general title Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of 
degradation of coatings — Designation of quantity and size of defects, and of intensity of uniform changes in 
appearance: 
 Part 1: General introduction and designation system 
 Part 2: Assessment of degree of blistering 
 Part 3: Assessment of degree of rusting 
 Part 4: Assessment of degree of cracking 
 Part 5: Assessment of degree of flaking 
 Part 6: Assessment of degree of chalking by tape method 
 Part 7: Assessment of degree of chalking by velvet method 
 Part 8: Assessment of degree of delamination and corrosion around a scribe 
 Part 10: Assessment of degree of filiform corrosion 
ISO 4628-1 defines the system to be used for designating the quantity and size of defects and the intensity of 
changes in appearance of coatings and outlines the general principles of the system. This system is intended 
to be used, in particular, for defects caused by ageing and weathering, and for uniform changes such as 
colour changes, for example yellowing. 
The other parts of ISO 4628 provide pictorial standards or other means for evaluating particular types of 
defect. As far as possible, already existing evaluation schemes have been used as the basis. 


ISO 4628-8:2005(E) 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved 
v
 
Introduction 
After exposure of a coated and scribed test panel in a corrosive environment, the following phenomena can 
occur around the scribe: 
 delamination; 
 corrosion. 
A combination of both phenomena can also occur. 
It is recommended that delamination and corrosion around the scribe be evaluated separately to obtain more 
detailed information about the coating system. 
In addition to the procedure described in this part of ISO 4628, assessments of delamination and corrosion 
around the scribe can be carried out using optical image processing. 
Rating of other defects is described in other parts of ISO 4628. 


INTERNATIONAL STANDARD 
ISO 4628-8:2005(E)
 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved 
1
 
Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of degradation of 
coatings — Designation of quantity and size of defects, and 
of intensity of uniform changes in appearance — 
Part 8: 
Assessment of degree of delamination and corrosion around a 
scribe 
1 
Scope 
This part of ISO 4628 specifies a method for assessing delamination and corrosion, caused by a corrosive 
environment, around a scribe in a coating on a test panel or other test specimen. 
NOTE 
An example of a corrosive environment is salt spray (fog) as used in the method of exposure described in 
ISO 7253 or ISO 9227 (see the Bibliography). 
2 
Normative references 
The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of this document. For dated 
references, only the edition cited applies. For undated references, the latest edition of the referenced 
document (including any amendments) applies. 
ISO 3270, Paints and varnishes and their raw materials — Temperatures and humidities for conditioning and 
testing 
ISO 21227-1, Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of defects on coated surfaces using optical imaging — 
Part 1: General guidance 
ISO 21227-3, Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of defects on coated surfaces using optical imaging — 
Part 3: Assessment of delamination and corrosion around a scribe 
3 
Terms and definitions 
For the purposes of this document, the following terms and definitions apply. 
3.1 
corrosion 
area of visible corrosion products 
3.2 
delamination 
loss of adhesion of a coating 


ISO 4628-8:2005(E) 
2 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved
 
4 
Principle 
The degree of delamination around a scribe is assessed either directly after the end of the exposure period 
immediately after removal of the test panel from the exposure environment or after conditioning for a specified 
period. 
The degree of corrosion around the scribe is assessed either immediately after removal of the test panel from 
the exposure environment or after removal of the coating. 
Both the area of delamination and the area of corrosion are determined either by measurement and 
calculation or by using pictorial standards. 
NOTE 
The extent of other defects may also be determined at the same time as the degree of delamination and 
degree of corrosion. The methods used are as follows: 
 blistering in accordance with ISO 4628-2 [2]; 
 rusting in accordance with ISO 4628-3 [3]; 
 cracking in accordance with ISO 4628-4 [4]; 
 flaking in accordance with ISO 4628-5 [5]; 
 filiform corrosion in accordance with ISO 4628-10 [6]. 
5 
Procedure 
5.1 General 
The degree of delamination and degree of corrosion are determined either by measurement and calculation or 
by comparing the scribes with the pictorial examples given in Figure 1. The measurement and calculation 
procedures given in 5.2 and 5.3 are generally preferred to the assessment described in 5.4 using pictorial 
standards. 
The assessment of the degree of delamination may be made immediately after removal of the panels from the 
conditioning environment (see 5.2.1), but can also be carried out after a further conditioning period to 
determine whether coating adhesion can regenerate itself (see 5.2.2). 
The assessment of the degree of corrosion may be made using the coated panel (see 5.3.1) or after stripping 
off the coating (see 5.3.2). 
5.2 Assessment of delamination 
5.2.1 
Directly after the end of the exposure period 
Rinse the test panel with fresh tap water immediately after exposure, blowing off residues of water from the 
surface using compressed air if necessary, and inspect for visible changes. Carefully remove any loose 
coating using a knife blade held at an angle, positioning the blade at the coating/substrate interface and lifting 
the coating away from the substrate. 
Depending upon the coating type and degree of delamination, some force may be necessary to remove the 
coating, but a boundary should be found where the coating becomes tightly adhered to the substrate, this 
being the limit of delamination. 
If desired, compressed air or adhesive tape may be used instead of a knife blade. It is important to remove the 
loose coating completely. 


ISO 4628-8:2005(E) 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved 
3
 
If necessary, rinse the test panel again with fresh tap water. 
Measure, in millimetres, the total width of the zone of delamination at a minimum of six points uniformly 
distributed along the scribe. Ignore delamination beyond the beginning and end of the original scribe. 
Determine the arithmetic mean and record this as the mean overall width of the zone of delamination, d1. 
5.2.2 
After conditioning 
The extent to which adhesion can regenerate itself after drying is determined as follows. 
Rinse and condition the test panel after exposure. Assess the degree of delamination as described in 5.2.1 
after conditioning for 1 h and again after conditioning for 24 h at a temperature of (23 ± 2) °C and a relative 
humidity of (50 ± 5) %, as specified in ISO 3270. 
5.3 Assessment of corrosion 
5.3.1 
Directly after the end of the exposure period 
Rinse the test panel with fresh tap water immediately after exposure, blowing off residues of water from the 
surface using compressed air if necessary, and inspect for visible changes. Carefully remove any loose 
coating using a knife blade held at an angle, positioning the blade at the coating/substrate interface and lifting 
the coating away from the substrate. 
A suitable paint remover or other means, e.g. compressed air or adhesive tape, may be used instead of a 
knife blade. It is important to remove the loose coating completely. 
If necessary, rinse the test panel again with fresh tap water. 
Measure, in millimetres, the width of the zone of corrosion at a minimum of six points uniformly distributed 
along the scribe. Ignore corrosion beyond the beginning and end of the original scribe. 
Determine the arithmetic mean and record this as the mean overall width of the zone of corrosion, wc. 
5.3.2 
Evaluation of corrosion on stripped test panels 
Remove the coating carefully from the test panel with a suitable paint remover that will not exacerbate the 
corrosion. Rinse the test panel rapidly with clean tap water, blow dry with compressed air and immediately 
coat completely with a suitable, non-hygroscopic, clear coating material such as an aerosol lacquer. 
Rate the zone of corrosion according to the pictorial standards given in Figure 1 or, if possible, measure the 
area, in square millimetres, using optical imaging as described in ISO 21227-1 and ISO 21227-3. Note any 
etched areas, which appear bright. 
5.4 Assessment using pictorial standards 
If required, assess the area of delamination and corrosion using the pictorial standards given in Figure 1. 
NOTE 
These pictorial standards are based on the rating system defined in ISO 4628-1. 


ISO 4628-8:2005(E) 
4 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved
 
6 
Calculation and expression of results 
6.1 Degree of delamination 
Calculate the degree of delamination d, in millimetres, using the equation: 
1
2
d
w
d
−
=
 
(1) 
where 
d1 is the mean overall width of the zone of delamination, in millimetres; 
w 
is the width of the original scribe, in millimetres. 
If the delamination is non-uniform, increase the number of measurement points so that they are more closely 
spaced, or calculate the degree of delamination d, in millimetres, using Equation (2). Ignore delamination 
beyond the beginning and end of the original scribe. Determine the size of the area by, for example, laying 
transparent millimetre-grid paper over the area and counting the number of squares corresponding to the area. 
d
l
1
2
A
A
d
l
−
=
×
 
(2) 
where 
Ad is the area of delamination, including the scribe area, in square millimetres; 
Al 
is the area of the scribe in the area evaluated, in square millimetres; 
l 
is the length of the scribe in the area evaluated, in millimetres. 
Express the results as: 
 either the degree of delamination d, to the nearest millimetre, determined directly after the end of the 
exposure period, plus the degree of delamination after further conditioning, if determined; 
 or the numerical rating obtained from the pictorial standards as described in 5.4. 
6.2 Degree of corrosion 
Calculate the degree of corrosion c, in millimetres, using the equation: 
c
2
w
w
c
−
=
 
(3) 
where 
wc is the the mean overall width of the zone of corrosion, in millimetres; 
w 
is the width of the original scribe, in millimetres. 
If the corrosion is non-uniform, increase the number of measurement points so that they are more closely 
spaced, or calculate the degree of corrosion c, in millimetres, using Equation (4). Ignore corrosion beyond the 
beginning and end of the original scribe. Determine the size of the area by, for example, laying transparent 
millimetre-grid paper over the area and counting the number of squares corresponding to the area. 


ISO 4628-8:2005(E) 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved 
5
 
c
l
1
2
A
A
c
l
−
=
×
 
(4) 
where 
Ac is the area of corrosion, including the scribe area, in square millimetres; 
Al 
is the scribe area in the area evaluated, in square millimetres; 
l 
is the scribe length in the area evaluated, in millimetres. 
Express the results as: 
 either the degree of corrosion c, to the nearest millimetre, determined directly after the end of the 
exposure period, plus the degree of corrosion found on stripped test panels, if determined; 
 or the numerical rating obtained from the pictorial standards as described in 5.4. 
6.3 Assessment using pictorial standards 
The numerical rating shall be given as indicated in the following example: 
Delamination and corrosion around a scribe: corrosion grade 2; delamination grade 3. 
7 
Test report 
The test report shall contain at least the following information: 
a) 
all information necessary for identification of the coating examined, including film thickness and number of 
coats; 
b) 
a reference to this part of ISO 4628 (ISO 4628-8:2005); 
c) 
details of the exposure of the coating, including: 
 a description of the corrosive environment, 
 the duration of the exposure in the corrosive environment; 
d) 
details of the assessment procedure, including: 
 the type of scribe tool used, 
 the shape, width and length of the scribe, 
 whether the coating was removed or not; 
e) 
the results of the assessment, including the results of the individual determinations and their means, 
calculated in accordance with Clause 6; 
f) 
any deviations from the procedure specified; 
g) 
any unusual features (anomalies) observed during the assessment; 
h) 
the date of the assessment. 
