# ISO 4628-7-2003 色漆和清漆.漆膜降解的评定.缺陷的量值和大小以及外观均匀变化强度的规定.用丝绒法评定粉化等级.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
Reference number
ISO 4628-7:2003(E)
© ISO 2003
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL 
STANDARD 
ISO
4628-7
First edition
2003-09-01
Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of 
degradation of coatings — Designation of 
quantity and size of defects, and of 
intensity of uniform changes in 
appearance — 
Part 7: 
Assessment of degree of chalking by 
velvet method 
Peintures et vernis — Évaluation de la dégradation des revêtements — 
Désignation de la quantité et de la dimension des défauts, et de 
l'intensité des changements uniformes d'aspect — 
Partie 7: Évaluation du degré de farinage selon la méthode du morceau 
de velours 
 


ISO 4628-7:2003(E) 
PDF disclaimer 
This PDF file may contain embedded typefaces. In accordance with Adobe's licensing policy, this file may be printed or viewed but 
shall not be edited unless the typefaces which are embedded are licensed to and installed on the computer performing the editing. In 
downloading this file, parties accept therein the responsibility of not infringing Adobe's licensing policy. The ISO Central Secretariat 
accepts no liability in this area. 
Adobe is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated. 
Details of the software products used to create this PDF file can be found in the General Info relative to the file; the PDF-creation 
parameters were optimized for printing. Every care has been taken to ensure that the file is suitable for use by ISO member bodies. In 
the unlikely event that a problem relating to it is found, please inform the Central Secretariat at the address given below. 
 
©   ISO 2003 
All rights reserved. Unless otherwise specified, no part of this publication may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, 
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and microfilm, without permission in writing from either ISO at the address below or 
ISO's member body in the country of the requester. 
ISO copyright office 
Case postale 56 • CH-1211 Geneva 20 
Tel.  + 41 22 749 01 11 
Fax  + 41 22 749 09 47 
E-mail  copyright@iso.org 
Web  www.iso.org 
Published in Switzerland 
 
ii 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved
 
 


ISO 4628-7:2003(E) 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved 
iii
 
Contents 
Page 
Foreword............................................................................................................................................................ iv 
1 
Scope...................................................................................................................................................... 1 
2 
Normative references ........................................................................................................................... 1 
3 
Terms and definitions........................................................................................................................... 2 
4 
Principle ................................................................................................................................................. 2 
5 
Materials................................................................................................................................................. 2 
6 
Assessment ........................................................................................................................................... 2 
7 
Test report.............................................................................................................................................. 3 
 


ISO 4628-7:2003(E) 
iv 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved
 
Foreword 
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies 
(ISO member bodies). The work of preparing International Standards is normally carried out through ISO 
technical committees. Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical committee has been 
established has the right to be represented on that committee. International organizations, governmental and 
non-governmental, in liaison with ISO, also take part in the work. ISO collaborates closely with the 
International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) on all matters of electrotechnical standardization. 
International Standards are drafted in accordance with the rules given in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2. 
The main task of technical committees is to prepare International Standards. Draft International Standards 
adopted by the technical committees are circulated to the member bodies for voting. Publication as an 
International Standard requires approval by at least 75 % of the member bodies casting a vote. 
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent 
rights. ISO shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights. 
ISO 4628-7 was prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 35, Paints and varnishes, Subcommittee SC 9, 
General test methods for paints and varnishes. 
ISO 4628 consists of the following parts, under the general title Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of 
degradation of coatings — Designation of quantity and size of defects, and of intensity of uniform changes in 
appearance: 
 Part 1: General introduction and designation system 
 Part 2: Assessment of degree of blistering 
 Part 3: Assessment of degree of rusting 
 Part 4: Assessment of degree of cracking 
 Part 5: Assessment of degree of flaking 
 Part 6: Assessment of degree of chalking by tape method 
 Part 7: Assessment of degree of chalking by velvet method 
 Part 8: Assessment of degree of delamination and corrosion around a scribe 
 Part 10: Assessment of degree of filiform corrosion 
 


INTERNATIONAL STANDARD 
ISO 4628-7:2003(E)
 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved 
1
 
Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of degradation of 
coatings — Designation of quantity and size of defects, and of 
intensity of uniform changes in appearance — 
Part 7: 
Assessment of degree of chalking by velvet method 
1 
Scope 
This part of ISO 4628 describes a method suitable, in particular, for rating the degree of chalking on white or 
coloured exterior coatings and coating systems on rough surfaces (i.e. those having a roughness greater than 
segment 4 of reference comparator G as described in ISO 8503-1). 
The test method specified may also be used for the assessment of the degree of chalking of coatings and 
coating systems on smooth surfaces, but the method specified in ISO 4628-6 is preferable for this purpose. 
The test method is applicable to coatings and coating systems on mineral substrates, e.g. fibre cement, brick, 
concrete and renderings, independent of the structure of the surface. The method can be used quite 
effectively by experienced operators and is recommended for laboratory use as well as for on-site evaluation. 
NOTE 1 
When a reference to this test method is included in specifications, the test conditions (i.e. weathering method 
and substrate) should be agreed between the interested parties. 
NOTE 2 
The method described in this part of ISO 4628 is a relative ranking method and is therefore not suitable for 
use in agreements between parties. See, however, the Note to Table 1. 
ISO 4628-1 defines the system used for designating the quantity and size of defects and the intensity of 
changes in appearance of coatings and outlines the general principles of the system. This system is intended 
to be used, in particular, for defects caused by ageing and weathering, and for uniform changes such as 
colour changes, for example yellowing. 
2 
Normative references 
The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of this document. For dated 
references, only the edition cited applies. For undated references, the latest edition of the referenced 
document (including any amendments) applies. 
ISO 4628-1, Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of degradation of coatings — Designation of quantity and size 
of defects, and of intensity of uniform changes in appearance — Part 1: General introduction and designation 
system 
ISO 4628-6:1990, Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of degradation of paint coatings — Designation of 
intensity, quantity and size of common types of defect — Part 6: Rating of degree of chalking by tape method 
ISO 8503-1, Preparation of steel substrates before application of paints and related products — Surface 
roughness characteristics of blast-cleaned steel substrates — Part 1: Specifications and definitions for ISO 
surface profile comparators for the assessment of abrasive blast-cleaned surfaces 


ISO 4628-7:2003(E) 
2 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved
 
3 
Terms and definitions 
For the purposes of this document, the following terms and definitions apply. 
3.1 
chalking 
appearance of a loosely adherent fine powder on the surface of a film arising from the degradation of one or 
more of its constituents 
4 
Principle 
Loosely adherent powder is removed from the coating under test, using a suitable fabric. The degree of 
chalking is assessed with reference to a rating scale. 
5 
Materials 
5.1 
Fabric, as agreed between the interested parties, to rub against the surface being tested. Black wool 
felt, velvet and velveteen have proven particularly effective for light coatings and a white fabric for dark 
coatings. 
6 
Assessment 
Carry out the assessment in duplicate, unless otherwise agreed. 
Using the index finger, press the fabric against the coating under test with firm pressure. Rotate the fabric 
once through an angle of 180°. Remove the fabric and assess the degree of chalking under diffuse light by 
reference to the rating scheme given in Table 1. 
NOTE 
A mechanical apparatus is preferred if comparative results are to be obtained; the coating may also be wiped 
once with the fabric. 
Table 1 — Rating scheme for designating the degree of chalking 
(derived from ISO 4628-1) 
Rating 
Degree of chalking 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
unchanged, i.e. no perceptible chalking 
very slight, i.e. just perceptible chalking 
slight, i.e. clearly perceptible chalking 
moderate, i.e. very clearly perceptible chalking 
considerable, i.e. pronounced chalking 
severe, i.e. intense chalking 
NOTE 
If specified or agreed, a simpler rating system can be used. However, in such cases the 
meanings of those ratings in this table which are used shall not be changed, in order to avoid 
confusion. 
Examples of pictorial standards for assessing the degree of chalking are given in ISO 4628-6:1990, Figure 1. 
The amount of powder may vary over a given area. Therefore, the test shall be carried out at an average 
location on the coating. On large surfaces, the assessment shall be made at several locations, and the mean 
and range reported. 


ISO 4628-7:2003(E) 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved 
3
 
Ratings obtained with coatings exposed to natural weathering shall be treated with caution, as dirt from the 
atmosphere deposited on the surface can give abnormally high values of the degree of chalking. 
7 
Test report 
The test report shall contain at least the following information: 
a) 
all details necessary to identify the coating tested; 
b) 
a reference to this part of ISO 4628 (ISO 4628-7:2003); 
c) 
the type of surface examined, its size and, if appropriate, its location; 
d) 
the numerical rating of the degree of chalking in accordance with Clause 6 (mean value, range and number 
of assessments); 
e) 
all details necessary to identify the fabric used; 
f) 
whether the result was obtained using the index finger or a particular apparatus (details to be indicated); 
g) 
details of any deviation from the procedure specified; 
h) 
any unusual features (anomalies) observed during the assessment; 
i) 
the date of the examination. 
 


ISO 4628-7:2003(E) 
ICS  87.040 
Price based on 3 pages 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved 
 
 
