# ISO 4892-2 实验室光源曝晒方法 氙灯.pdf

 
 
DEUTSCHE NORM
 
June 2006
 
DIN EN ISO 4892-2 
{
 ICS 83.080.01 
 
 
 
 
Supersedes 
DIN EN ISO 4892-2:2000-11 
 
 
 
Plastics – 
Methods of exposure to laboratory light sources – 
Part 2: Xenon-arc lamps (ISO 4892-2:2006) 
English version of DIN EN ISO 4892-2:2006-06 
 
Kunststoffe – 
Künstliches Bestrahlen oder Bewittern in Geräten – 
Teil 2: Xenonbogenlampen (ISO 4892-2:2006) 
Englische Fassung DIN EN ISO 4892-2:2006-06 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document comprises 14 pages
 
 
©  No part of this standard may be reproduced without prior permission of 
 
DIN Deutsches Institut für Normung e. V., Berlin. Beuth Verlag GmbH, 10772 Berlin, Germany, 
 
has the exclusive right of sale for German Standards (DIN-Normen). 
English price group 10 
www.din.de 
www.beuth.de 
!,o4c"
11.06
9761764
 
Normen-Download-Beuth-Erbslöh Aktiengesellschaft-KdNr.260702-LfNr.3572712001-2007-04-02 10:04


DIN EN ISO 4892-2:2006-06 
2 
National foreword 
This standard has been published in accordance with a decision taken by CEN/TC 249 to adopt, without 
alteration, International Standard ISO 4892-2 as a European Standard. 
The responsible German body involved in its preparation was the Normenausschuss Kunststoffe (Plastics 
Standards Committee), Technical Committee NA 054-01-04 AA Verhalten gegen Umwelteinflüsse. 
The applicability of this standard for elastomers has been confirmed by Technical Committee NMP 434 Prü-
fung der physikalischen Eigenschaften von Kautschuk und Elastomeren of the Normenausschuss Material-
prüfung (Materials Testing Standards Committee). 
The DIN Standards corresponding to the International Standards referred to in clause 2 and in the 
bibliography of the EN are as follows: 
ISO 4892-1 
DIN EN ISO 4892-1 
ISO 11341 
DIN EN ISO 11341 
Amendments 
This standard differs from DIN EN ISO 4892-2:2000-11 as follows: 
a) The standard has been completely revised and brought into line with the specifications given in 
ISO 4892-1:1999. 
b) Tables 1 and 2 now include additional information. 
c) A new table 3 ‘Exposure cycles’ has been included. 
Previous editions 
DIN 53387: 1973-01, 1974-10, 1982-06, 1989-04 
DIN 53389: 1974-04 
DIN EN ISO 4892-2: 2000-11 
National Annex NA 
(informative) 
 
Bibliography 
DIN EN ISO 4892-1, Plastics — Methods of exposure to laboratory light sources — Part 1: General guidance 
DIN EN ISO 11341, Paints and varnishes — Artificial weathering and exposure to artificial radiation — 
Exposure to filtered xenon-arc radiation 
 
 
Normen-Download-Beuth-Erbslöh Aktiengesellschaft-KdNr.260702-LfNr.3572712001-2007-04-02 10:04


 
 
 
EUROPEAN STANDARD 
NORME EUROPÉENNE 
EUROPÄISCHE NORM 
 
 EN ISO 4892-2 
 
 
 
 
February 2006 
ICS 83.080.01 
Supersedes EN ISO 4892-2:1999 
English Version 
 
Plastics - Methods of exposure to laboratory light sources -  
Part 2: Xenon-arc lamps (ISO 4892-2:2006) 
 
Plastiques - Méthodes d'exposition à des sources 
lumineuses de laboratoire - Partie 2: Lampes à arc au 
xénon (ISO 4892-2:2006) 
 
Kunststoffe - Künstliches Bestrahlen oder Bewittern in 
Geräten - Teil 2: Xenonbogenlampen (ISO 4892-2:2006) 
This European Standard was approved by CEN on 28 October 2005.  
 
CEN members are bound to comply with the CEN/CENELEC Internal Regulations which stipulate the conditions for giving this European 
Standard the status of a national standard without any alteration. Up-to-date lists and bibliographical references concerning such national 
standards may be obtained on application to the Central Secretariat or to any CEN member. 
 
This European Standard exists in three official versions (English, French, German). A version in any other language made by translation 
under the responsibility of a CEN member into its own language and notified to the Central Secretariat has the same status as the official 
versions. 
 
CEN members are the national standards bodies of Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, 
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, 
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and United Kingdom. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUROPEAN COMMITTEE FOR STANDARDIZATION  
COMITÉ EUROPÉEN DE NORMALISATION 
EUROPÄISCHES KOMITEE FÜR NORMUNG 
 
 
Management Centre: rue de Stassart, 36    B-1050 Brussels 
© 2006 CEN 
All rights of exploitation in any form and by any means reserved 
worldwide for CEN national Members. 
Ref. No. EN ISO 4892-2:2006: E
 
Normen-Download-Beuth-Erbslöh Aktiengesellschaft-KdNr.260702-LfNr.3572712001-2007-04-02 10:04


EN ISO 4892-2:2006 (E) 
2 
 
Foreword 
This document (EN ISO 4892-2:2006) has been prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 61  
"Plastics" in collaboration with Technical Committee CEN/TC 249 "Plastics", the secretariat of  
which is held by IBN. 
This European Standard shall be given the status of a national standard, either by publication of  
an identical text or by endorsement, at the latest by August 2006, and conflicting national  
standards shall be withdrawn at the latest by August 2006. 
This document supersedes EN ISO 4892-2:1999. 
According to the CEN/CENELEC Internal Regulations, the national standards organizations of  
the following countries are bound to implement this European Standard: Austria, Belgium,  
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary,  
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,  
Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and United Kingdom. 
Endorsement notice 
The text of ISO 4892-2:2006 has been approved by CEN as EN ISO 4892-2:2006 without any  
modifications. 
Contents 
Page 
Foreword..............................................................................................................................................................2 
1 
Scope ......................................................................................................................................................3 
2 
Normative references ............................................................................................................................3 
3 
Principle..................................................................................................................................................3 
4 
Apparatus ...............................................................................................................................................4 
5 
Test specimens......................................................................................................................................8 
6 
Exposure conditions .............................................................................................................................8 
7 
Procedure .............................................................................................................................................10 
8 
Exposure report ...................................................................................................................................10 
Annex A (informative)  Filtered xenon-arc radiation — Spectral power distribution ................................11 
Bibliography......................................................................................................................................................12 
 
 
Normen-Download-Beuth-Erbslöh Aktiengesellschaft-KdNr.260702-LfNr.3572712001-2007-04-02 10:04


EN ISO 4892-2:2006 (E) 
3 
 
 
1 
Scope 
This part of ISO 4892 specifies methods for exposing specimens to xenon-arc light in the presence of 
moisture to reproduce the weathering effects that occur when materials are exposed in actual end-use 
environments to daylight or to daylight filtered through window glass. 
The specimens are exposed to filtered xenon-arc light under controlled conditions (temperature, humidity 
and/or wetting). Various types of xenon-arc light source and various filter combinations may be used to meet 
different requirements. 
Specimen preparation and evaluation of the results are covered in other International Standards for specific 
materials. 
General guidance is given in ISO 4892-1. 
NOTE 
Xenon-arc exposures of paints and varnishes are described in ISO 11341. 
2 
Normative references 
The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of this document. For dated 
references, only the edition cited applies. For undated references, the latest edition of the referenced 
document (including any amendments) applies. 
ISO 4582, Plastics — Determination of changes in colour and variations in properties after exposure to 
daylight under glass, natural weathering or laboratory light sources 
ISO 4892-1, Plastics — Methods of exposure to laboratory light sources — Part 1: General guidance 
3 
Principle 
3.1 
A xenon arc, fitted with suitable filters and properly maintained, is used to simulate the spectral power 
distribution of daylight in the ultraviolet (UV) and visible regions of the spectrum. 
3.2 
Specimens are exposed to various levels of light, heat, relative humidity and water (see 3.4) under 
controlled environmental conditions. 
3.3 
The exposure conditions may be varied by selection of 
a) 
the light filter(s); 
b) 
the irradiance level; 
 
Normen-Download-Beuth-Erbslöh Aktiengesellschaft-KdNr.260702-LfNr.3572712001-2007-04-02 10:04


EN ISO 4892-2:2006 (E) 
4 
 
c) 
the temperature during exposure to light; 
d) 
the relative humidity in the chamber during light and dark exposures, when exposure conditions requiring 
control of humidity are used; 
e) 
the way the test specimens are wetted (see 3.4); 
f) 
the water temperature and wetting cycle; 
g) 
the relative lengths of the light and dark periods. 
3.4 
Wetting is usually produced by spraying the test specimens with demineralized/deionized water, by 
immersion in water or by condensation of water vapour onto the surfaces of the specimens. 
3.5 
The procedure may include measurements of the irradiance and radiant exposure in the plane of the 
specimens. 
3.6 
It is recommended that a similar material of known performance (a control) be exposed simultaneously 
with the test specimens to provide a standard for comparative purposes. 
3.7 
Intercomparison of results obtained from specimens exposed in different apparatus should not be made 
unless an appropriate statistical relationship has been established between the apparatuses for the particular 
material exposed. 
4 
Apparatus 
4.1 Laboratory light source 
4.1.1 
General 
The light source shall comprise one or more quartz-jacketed xenon-arc lamps which emit radiation from below 
270 nm in the ultraviolet through the visible spectrum and into the infrared. In order to simulate daylight, filters 
shall be used to remove short-wavelength UV radiation (method A, see Table 1). Filters to minimize irradiance 
at wavelengths shorter than 310 nm shall be used to simulate daylight through window glass (method B, see 
Table 2). In addition, filters to remove infrared radiation may be used to prevent unrealistic heating of the test 
specimens, which can cause thermal degradation not experienced during outdoor exposures. 
NOTE 
Solar spectral irradiance for a number of different atmospheric conditions is described in CIE Publication 
No. 85. The benchmark daylight used in this part of ISO 4892 is that defined in Table 4 in CIE No. 85:1989. 
4.1.2 
Spectral irradiance of xenon-arc lamps with daylight filters 
Filters are used to filter xenon-arc emissions in order to simulate daylight (CIE Publication No. 85:1989, 
Table 4). The minimum and maximum levels of the relative spectral irradiance in the UV wavelength range are 
given in Table 1 (see also Annex A). 
 
Normen-Download-Beuth-Erbslöh Aktiengesellschaft-KdNr.260702-LfNr.3572712001-2007-04-02 10:04


EN ISO 4892-2:2006 (E) 
5 
 
Table 1 — Relative spectral irradiance of xenon-arc lamps with daylight filters a, b (method A) 
Spectral passband 
(λ = wavelength in nm) 
Minimum c 
% 
CIE No. 85:1989, Table 4 d, e 
% 
Maximum c 
% 
λ < 290 
 
 
0,15 
290 ≤ λ ≤ 320 
2,6 
5,4 
7,9 
320 < λ ≤ 360 
28,2 
38,2 
39,8 
360 < λ ≤ 400 
54,2 
56,4 
67,5 
a 
This table gives the irradiance in the given passband, expressed as a percentage of the total irradiance between 
290 nm and 400 nm. To determine whether a specific filter or set of filters for a xenon-arc lamp meets the 
requirements of this table, the spectral irradiance must be measured from 250 nm to 400 nm. The total irradiance in 
each wavelength passband is then summed and divided by the total irradiance from 290 nm to 400 nm. 
b 
The minimum and maximum limits in this table are based on more than 100 spectral irradiance measurements 
with water- and air-cooled xenon-arc lamps with daylight filters from different production lots and of various ages [3], 
used in accordance with the recommendations of the manufacturer. As more spectral irradiance data become 
available, minor changes in the limits are possible. The minimum and maximum limits are at least three sigma from the 
mean for all the measurements. 
c 
The minimum and maximum columns will not necessarily sum to 100 % because they represent the minima and 
maxima for the measurement data used. For any individual spectral irradiance, the percentages calculated for the 
passbands in this table will sum to 100 %. For any individual xenon-arc lamp with daylight filters, the calculated 
percentage in each passband shall fall within the minimum and maximum limits given. Exposure results can be 
expected to differ if obtained using xenon-arc apparatus in which the spectral irradiances differ by as much as that 
allowed by the tolerances. Contact the manufacturer of the xenon-arc apparatus for specific spectral irradiance data 
for the xenon-arc lamp and filters used. 
d 
The data from Table 4 in CIE Publication No. 85:1989 is the global solar irradiance on a horizontal surface for an 
air mass of 1,0, an ozone column of 0,34 cm at STP, 1,42 cm of precipitable water vapour and a spectral optical depth 
of aerosol extinction of 0,1 at 500 nm. These data are target values for xenon-arc lamps with daylight filters. 
e 
For the solar spectrum represented by Table 4 in CIE No. 85:1989, the UV irradiance (between 290 nm and 
400 nm) is 11 % and the visible irradiance (between 400 nm and 800 nm) is 89 %, expressed as a percentage of the 
total irradiance between 290 nm and 800 nm. The percentage of the UV irradiance and that of the visible irradiance 
incident on specimens exposed in xenon-arc apparatus may vary due to the number of specimens being exposed and 
their reflectance properties. 
4.1.3 
Spectral irradiance of xenon-arc lamps with window glass filters 
Filters are used to filter the xenon-arc lamp emissions in order to simulate daylight which has passed through 
window glass. The minimum and maximum levels of the relative spectral irradiance in the UV region are given 
in Table 2 (see also Annex A). 
 
Normen-Download-Beuth-Erbslöh Aktiengesellschaft-KdNr.260702-LfNr.3572712001-2007-04-02 10:04


EN ISO 4892-2:2006 (E) 
6 
 
Table 2 — Relative spectral irradiance for xenon-arc lamps with window glass filters a, b (method B) 
Spectral passband 
Minimum c 
CIE No. 85:1989, Table 4 
plus effect of window glass d, e 
Maximum c 
(λ = wavelength in nm) 
% 
% 
% 
λ < 300 
 
 
0,29 
300 ≤ λ ≤ 320 
0,1 
≤ 1 
2,8 
320 < λ ≤ 360 
23,8 
33,1 
35,5 
360 < λ ≤ 400 
62,4 
66,0 
76,2 
a 
This table gives the irradiance in the given passband, expressed as a percentage of the total irradiance between 
290 nm and 400 nm. To determine whether a specific filter or set of filters for a xenon-arc lamp meets the 
requirements of this table, the spectral irradiance must be measured from 250 nm to 400 nm. The total irradiance in 
each passband is then summed and divided by the total irradiance between 290 nm and 400 nm. 
b 
The minimum and maximum limits in this table are based on more than 30 spectral irradiance measurements with 
water- and air-cooled xenon-arc lamps with window glass filters from different production lots and of various ages [3], 
used in accordance with the recommendations of the manufacturer. As more spectral irradiance data become 
available, minor changes in the limits are possible. The minimum and maximum limits are at least three sigma from the 
mean for all the measurements. 
c 
The minimum and maximum columns will not necessarily sum to 100 % because they represent the minima and 
maxima for the data used. For any individual spectral irradiance, the percentages calculated for the passbands in this 
table will sum to 100 %. For any individual xenon-arc lamp with window glass filters, the calculated percentage in each 
passband shall fall within the minimum and maximum limits given. Exposure results can be expected to differ if 
obtained using xenon-arc apparatus in which the spectral irradiances differ by as much as that allowed by the 
tolerances. Contact the manufacturer of the xenon-arc apparatus for specific spectral irradiance data for the xenon-arc 
lamp and filters used. 
d 
The data from Table 4 in CIE No. 85:1989 plus the effect of window glass was determined by multiplying the CIE 
No. 85:1989, Table 4, data by the spectral transmittance of 3-mm-thick window glass (see ISO 11341). These data are 
target values for xenon-arc lamps with window glass filters. 
e 
For the CIE No. 85:1989 plus window glass data, the UV irradiance between 300 nm and 400 nm is typically 
about 9 % and the visible irradiance (between 400 nm and 800 nm) is typically about 91 %, expressed as a 
percentage of the total irradiance between 300 nm and 800 nm. The percentage of the UV irradiance and that of the 
visible irradiance incident on specimens exposed in xenon-arc apparatus may vary due to the number of specimens 
being exposed and their reflectance properties. 
4.1.4 
Irradiance uniformity 
The irradiance at any position in the area used for specimen exposure shall be at least 80 % of the maximum 
irradiance. Requirements for periodic repositioning of specimens when this requirement is not met are 
described in ISO 4892-1. 
NOTE 
For some materials of high reflectivity, periodic repositioning of specimens is recommended to ensure 
uniformity of exposures, even when the irradiance uniformity in the exposure area is within the limits so that repositioning 
is not required. 
4.2 Test chamber 
The design of the test chamber may vary, but it shall be constructed from inert material. In addition to the 
controlled irradiance, the test chamber shall provide for control of temperature. For exposures that require 
control of humidity, the test chamber shall include humidity-control facilities that meet the requirements of 
ISO 4892-1. When required by the exposure used, the apparatus shall also include facilities for the provision 
of water spray or the formation of condensate on the surface of the test specimens, or for the immersion of the 
specimens in water. Water used for water spray shall meet the requirements of ISO 4892-1. 
The light source(s) shall be located, with respect to the specimens, such that the irradiance at the specimen 
surface complies with 6.1. 
 
Normen-Download-Beuth-Erbslöh Aktiengesellschaft-KdNr.260702-LfNr.3572712001-2007-04-02 10:04


EN ISO 4892-2:2006 (E) 
7 
 
NOTE 
If the lamp system (one or more lamps) is centrally positioned in the chamber, the effect of any eccentricity of 
the lamp(s) on the uniformity of exposure may be reduced by using a rotating frame carrying the specimens or by 
repositioning or rotating the lamps. 
Should any ozone be generated from operation of the lamp(s), the lamp(s) shall be isolated from the test 
specimens and operating personnel. If the ozone is in an air stream, it shall be vented directly to the outside of 
the building. 
4.3 Radiometer 
When a radiometer is used, it shall comply with the requirements outlined in ISO 4892-1. 
4.4 Black-standard/black-panel thermometer 
The black-standard or black-panel thermometer used shall comply with the requirements for these devices 
given in ISO 4892-1. 
4.5 Wetting and humidity-control equipment 
4.5.1 
General 
Specimens may be exposed to moisture in the form of water spray or condensation, or by immersion. Specific 
exposure conditions using water spray are described in Table 3. If condensation, immersion or other methods 
are used to expose the specimens to moisture, details of the procedures and exposure conditions used shall 
be included in the exposure report. 
Table 3 also describes exposure conditions in which the relative humidity is controlled as well as those in 
which humidity control is not required. 
NOTE 
The relative humidity of the air can have a significant influence on the photodegradation of polymers. 
4.5.2 
Relative-humidity control equipment 
For exposures where relative-humidity control is required, the location of the sensors used to measure the 
humidity shall be as specified in ISO 4892-1. 
4.5.3 
Spray system 
The test chamber shall be equipped with a means of directing an intermittent water spray onto the fronts or 
backs of the test specimens under specified conditions. The spray shall be uniformly distributed over the 
specimens. The spray system shall be made from corrosion-resistant materials that do not contaminate the 
water employed. 
The water sprayed onto the specimen surfaces shall have a conductivity below 5 µS/cm, contain less than 
1 µg/g dissolved solids and leave no observable stains or deposits on the specimens. Care shall be taken to 
keep silica levels below 0,2 µg/g. A combination of deionization and reverse osmosis can be used to produce 
water of the desired quality. 
4.6 Specimen holders 
Specimen holders may be in the form of an open frame, leaving the backs of the specimens exposed, or they 
may provide the specimens with a solid backing. They shall be made from inert materials that will not affect 
the results of the exposure, for example non-oxidizing alloys of aluminium or stainless steel. Brass, steel or 
copper shall not be used in the vicinity of the test specimens. The backing used may affect the results, as may 
any space between the backing and the test specimen, particularly with transparent specimens, and shall be 
agreed on between the interested parties. 
 
Normen-Download-Beuth-Erbslöh Aktiengesellschaft-KdNr.260702-LfNr.3572712001-2007-04-02 10:04


EN ISO 4892-2:2006 (E) 
8 
 
4.7 Apparatus to assess changes in properties 
The apparatus required by the International Standards relating to the determination of the properties chosen 
for monitoring (see also ISO 4582) shall be used. 
5 
Test specimens 
Refer to ISO 4892-1. 
6 
Exposure conditions 
6.1 Radiation 
Unless otherwise specified, control the irradiance at the levels indicated in Table 3. Other irradiance levels 
may be used when agreed on by the interested parties. The irradiance, and the passband in which it was 
measured, shall be included in the exposure report. 
6.2 Temperature 
6.2.1 
Black-standard/black-panel temperature 
For referee purposes, Table 3 specifies black-standard temperatures. For normal work, black-panel 
thermometers may be used in place of black-standard thermometers. However, allowance will have to be 
made for the fact that the two types of thermometer indicate different temperatures, due to their different 
thermal conductivities (see ISO 4892-1). 
NOTE 1 
If a black-panel thermometer is used, the temperature indicated will be 3 °C to 12 °C lower than that indicated 
by a black-standard thermometer under typical exposure conditions. 
If a black-panel thermometer is used, then the panel material, the type of temperature sensor and the way in 
which the sensor is mounted on the panel shall be included in the exposure report. 
NOTE 2 
If higher temperatures (see cycles 3, 4 7 and 8 in Table 3) are used for special exposures, the tendency for 
specimens to undergo thermal degradation will increase and this may affect the results of such exposures. 
Other temperatures may be used when agreed on by the interested parties, but shall be stated in the 
exposure report. 
If water spray is used, the temperature requirements apply to the end of the dry period. If the thermometer 
does not reach a steady state during the short water-spray part of the cycle, the temperature specified shall be 
established without water spray and the maximum temperature attained during the dry part of the cycle shall 
be reported. 
NOTE 3 
The additional measurement of a white-standard/white-panel temperature with a white-standard/white-panel 
thermometer according to ISO 4892-1 gives important information on the range of surface temperatures of differently 
coloured test specimens. 
6.2.2 
Chamber air temperature 
Exposures can be run either with the chamber air temperature controlled at a specified level or allowing the air 
temperature to find its own level (see Table 3). 
6.3 Relative humidity of chamber air 
Exposures can be conducted either with the relative humidity controlled at a specified level or allowing the 
relative humidity to find its own level (see Table 3). 
 
Normen-Download-Beuth-Erbslöh Aktiengesellschaft-KdNr.260702-LfNr.3572712001-2007-04-02 10:04
