# ISO 20566-2020.PDF

© ISO 2020
Paints and varnishes — 
Determination of the scratch 
resistance of a coating system using a 
laboratory-scale car-wash
Peintures et vernis — Détermination de la résistance à la rayure d'un 
système de peinture sur un poste de lavage automobile de laboratoire
INTERNATIONAL 
STANDARD
ISO
20566
Third edition
2020-05
Reference number
ISO 20566:2020(E)


﻿
ISO 20566:2020(E)
﻿
ii
© ISO 2020 – All rights reserved
COPYRIGHT PROTECTED DOCUMENT
©  ISO 2020
All rights reserved. Unless otherwise specified, or required in the context of its implementation, no part of this publication may 
be reproduced or utilized otherwise in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, or posting 
on the internet or an intranet, without prior written permission. Permission can be requested from either ISO at the address 
below or ISO’s member body in the country of the requester.
ISO copyright office
CP 401 • Ch. de Blandonnet 8
CH-1214 Vernier, Geneva
Phone: +41 22 749 01 11
Fax: +41 22 749 09 47
Email: copyright@iso.org
Website: www.iso.org
Published in Switzerland


﻿
ISO 20566:2020(E)
﻿
Foreword.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................iv
Introduction..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................v
1	
Scope..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................1
2	
Normative references.......................................................................................................................................................................................1
3 
Terms and definitions......................................................................................................................................................................................1
4	
Apparatus.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................2
5	
Washing suspension..........................................................................................................................................................................................3
6	
Sampling........................................................................................................................................................................................................................4
7	
Test panels...................................................................................................................................................................................................................4
8	
Procedure.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................4
9	
​Evaluation....................................................................................................................................................................................................................5
10	
Precision........................................................................................................................................................................................................................5
10.1	
Repeatability limit r ........................................................................................................................................................................... 5
10.2	
Reproducibility limit, R ................................................................................................................................................................... 5
11	
Test report...................................................................................................................................................................................................................5
Annex A (normative) Verification and calibration of the washing equipment.........................................................7
© ISO 2020 – All rights reserved
iii
Contents
Page


﻿
ISO 20566:2020(E)
Foreword
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide federation of national standards 
bodies (ISO member bodies). The work of preparing International Standards is normally carried out 
through ISO technical committees. Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical 
committee has been established has the right to be represented on that committee. International 
organizations, governmental and non-governmental, in liaison with ISO, also take part in the work. 
ISO collaborates closely with the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) on all matters of 
electrotechnical standardization.
The procedures used to develop this document and those intended for its further maintenance are 
described in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 1. In particular, the different approval criteria needed for the 
different types of ISO documents should be noted. This document was drafted in accordance with the 
editorial rules of the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2 (see www​.iso​.org/​directives).
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of 
patent rights. ISO shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights. Details of 
any patent rights identified during the development of the document will be in the Introduction and/or 
on the ISO list of patent declarations received (see www​.iso​.org/​patents).
Any trade name used in this document is information given for the convenience of users and does not 
constitute an endorsement.
For an explanation of the voluntary nature of standards, the meaning of ISO specific terms and 
expressions related to conformity assessment, as well as information about ISO's adherence to the 
World Trade Organization (WTO) principles in the Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT), see www​.iso​.org/​
iso/​foreword​.html.
This document was prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 35, Paints and varnishes, Subcommittee 
SC 9, General test methods for paints and varnishes, in collaboration with the European Committee for 
Standardization (CEN) Technical Committee CEN/TC 139, Paints and varnishes, in accordance with the 
Agreement on technical cooperation between ISO and CEN (Vienna Agreement).
This third edition cancels and replaces the second edition (ISO 20566:2013), which has been technically 
revised. The main changes compared to the previous edition are as follows:
—	 the term “control panel” has been changed to “reference panel”;
—	 the requirement for the temperature of the washing suspension has been deleted;
—	 verification using a plastics panel has been added to Annex A;
—	 the text has been editorially revised and the normative references have been updated.
Any feedback or questions on this document should be directed to the user’s national standards body. A 
complete listing of these bodies can be found at www​.iso​.org/​members​.html.
﻿
iv
© ISO 2020 – All rights reserved


﻿
ISO 20566:2020(E)
Introduction
With this test procedure, it is important to note that the test results will not, over time, remain 
constant, as a result of changes to the brush material. As the brush ages, the test will become more 
severe. As a result, the test procedure is suitable only for comparative tests carried out at any one time 
and using relatively short runs. Readings obtained using equipment which has accumulated different 
total numbers of operating hours are not comparable with each other.
﻿
© ISO 2020 – All rights reserved
v


﻿
Paints and varnishes — Determination of the scratch 
resistance of a coating system using a laboratory-scale 
car-wash
1	 Scope
This document specifies a test procedure for assessing the scratch resistance of organic paint 
coatings, in particular paint coatings used in the automotive industry (i.e. for assessing their car-
wash resistance). Machine-based washing is simulated in the laboratory environment using a rotating 
brush and synthetic dirt. The test conditions have been designed to be as close as possible to the real 
conditions in a car-wash. If the test parameters are suitably chosen, the method can also be used for 
testing protective plastics films and plastics components.
2	 Normative references
The following documents are referred to in the text in such a way that some or all of their content 
constitutes requirements of this document. For dated references, only the edition cited applies. For 
undated references, the latest edition of the referenced document (including any amendments) applies.
ISO 1513, Paints and varnishes — Examination and preparation of test samples
ISO 2813, Paints and varnishes — Determination of gloss value at 20°, 60° and 85°
ISO 4618, Paints and varnishes — Terms and definitions
ISO  4628-1, Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of degradation of coatings — Designation of quantity 
and size of defects, and of intensity of uniform changes in appearance — Part 1: General introduction and 
designation system
ISO 13076, Paints and varnishes — Lighting and procedure for visual assessments of coatings
ISO 13803, Paints and varnishes — Determination of haze on paint films at 20°
ISO 15528, Paints, varnishes and raw materials for paints and varnishes — Sampling
ISO 18314-1, Analytical colorimetry — Part 1: Practical colour measurement
3 Terms and definitions
For the purposes of this document, the terms and definitions given in ISO 4618 and the following apply.
ISO and IEC maintain terminological databases for use in standardization at the following addresses:
—	 ISO Online browsing platform: available at https://​www​.iso​.org/​obp
—	 IEC Electropedia: available at http://​www​.electropedia​.org/​
3.1
double pass
single back-and-forward movement of the test panel holder
3.2
test area
area which is evaluated
INTERNATIONAL STANDARD
ISO 20566:2020(E)
© ISO 2020 – All rights reserved
1


﻿
ISO 20566:2020(E)
3.3
reflow effect
ability of the coating surface to revert to its original appearance after damage such as scratching
4	 Apparatus
The apparatus1) shall comprise at least the following individual components:
4.1	
Washing brush:
Diameter
(1 000 ± 40) mm
Width
min. 300 mm, typically 400 mm
Material
polyethylene
Profile
x-shaped, spliced
Bristle thickness
(0,8 ± 0,2) mm
Bristle length
(440 ± 20) mm visible
Penetration depth
(100 ± 20) mm (see Figure 1)
Speed of brush rotation
(127 ± 5) min–1, in the direction opposite to the direction of travel of the 
test panel holder
The replacement of washing brushes is decided by testing a reference panel. The reference panel 
material shall be chosen to reflect changes in the washing brush, so that it is possible to differentiate 
between a new and a used brush.
The apparatus shall be calibrated as described in Annex A using a reference panel, either the plastics 
panel described in A.1.2 or a panel coated with a black non-metallic paint and a clear coat on top as 
described in A.1.3.
4.2	
Spray nozzles, made of stainless steel:
Spread of jet
65°
Rate of flow of washing suspension
(2,2 ± 0,2) l/min at (300 ± 50) kPa
The two nozzles shall spray alternately, against the direction of travel of the test panel holder. They 
shall produce the specified spray pattern (see Annex A).
1)	  Information on procuring the test apparatus is available at: DIN Deutsches Institut für Normung e.V., NAB, 
Burggrafenstrasse 6, 10787 Berlin, Germany.
﻿
2
© ISO 2020 – All rights reserved


﻿
ISO 20566:2020(E)
 
4.3	
Test panel holder:
Feed speed
(5,0 ± 0,2) m/min
Pattern of movement
If the brush is rotating clockwise, the right nozzle is spraying and the test 
panel holder travels from left to right (and vice versa) — see Figure 1.
 
Dimensions in millimetres
Key
1
washing brush
2
spray nozzle
3
test panel holder
4
spray jet (centreline of jet strikes brush directly, 50 mm above test panel holder)
a
Penetration depth.
Figure 1 — Pattern of movement of washing brush and spray nozzles with respect to test 
panel holder
4.4	
Container, suitable for holding the washing suspension during the test.
4.5	
Glossmeter in accordance with ISO 2813.
5	 Washing suspension
Prepare a suspension consisting of (1,50  ±  0,05)  g of silica powder (silica micro-powder having a 
mean particle size d50 % of 24 µm)2) per litre of tap water in a suitable container, mixing it by stirring 
vigorously.
2)	  Information on procuring the silica powder is available from: DIN Deutsches Institut für Normung e.V., NAB, 
Burggrafenstrasse 6, 10787 Berlin, Germany.
﻿
© ISO 2020 – All rights reserved
3


﻿
ISO 20566:2020(E)
The suspension shall be stirred continuously before and during the test in such a way that the 
silica powder does not settle on the bottom of the container as this would result in variations in the 
concentration.
The suspension may be reused once the test equipment has come to a standstill. However, it is essential 
that the suspension be stirred thoroughly again before being reused.
Before standstill of more than 2  days, the container should be emptied completely to avoid 
microbiological growth.
6	 Sampling
Take a representative sample of the product to be tested, as specified in ISO 15528.
Examine and prepare each sample for testing, as specified in ISO 1513.
If testing a clearcoat, the basecoat shall be single shade of black.
7	 Test panels
Test panels shall be flat and free of deformations. The substrate and size shall be as agreed between the 
interested parties. The thickness of the test panels should preferably be between 0,5 mm and 5 mm. 
With other thicknesses, the depth of penetration into the washing brush and the angle of approach of 
the brush shall be adjusted by setting the test-panel holder to the correct height.
The spraying, drying/hardening and stoving parameters, and the ageing and conditioning before the 
test, shall be as agreed between the interested parties.
NOTE	
If test panels thicker than 5 mm or test specimens other than flat test panels are used, the test results 
can spread widely, because the bristles touch the surface of the sample differently, so they wear differently.
8	 Procedure
Carry out the test at room temperature.
The optimum test area shall be identified for each test apparatus, especially after changing the brush, 
by a control test, as follows. Using a reference panel (see Annex A), determine the area on the test panels 
in which the difference in gloss compared to the most scratched area is not more than 15 gloss units. 
Do not evaluate the area at least 5 cm wide at each end of the test panels or the areas at least 3 cm wide 
along the edges of the panels, parallel to the direction of travel of the test panels.
Before carrying out a test, perform a preliminary run without any test panels, carrying out 10 washing 
operations (10 double passes), to distribute the washing suspension evenly in the apparatus.
Make sure that the thickness of the test panels is the same over the whole test area.
Prior to testing, examine the coated test panels visually in accordance with ISO 13076 and determine 
the initial value of the parameter to be measured, e.g. gloss in accordance with ISO  2813, haze in 
accordance with ISO 13803 or colour in accordance with ISO 18314-1.
Set the required pressure and verify it.
Position the test panels on the test panel holder and carry out 10 washing operations (10 double passes) 
using the back-and-forth pattern of movement shown in Figure 1.
Rinse the washed test panels with cold water, then clean them with a suitable solvent, e.g. white spirit, 
using soft, non-scratching paper tissues and wiping in the direction of the scratches. Finally, leave for 
10 min to dry off. This process is designed to remove all residues of silica powder, and any abraded 
material from the brush.
﻿
4
© ISO 2020 – All rights reserved


﻿
ISO 20566:2020(E)
Special boiling point spirit 60/95 (CAS-No  64742-49-0) has been found most suitable for cleaning 
painted surfaces to remove abrasion marks produced by the brush. Generally, preliminary tests for 
chemical resistance are necessary, however.
Verify the test apparatus regularly using a reference panel (see Annex A).
If the test equipment will not be used for some time (after completion of a test series) it should be rinsed 
thoroughly with tap water to avoid sedimentation.
9	 ​Evaluation
Within 2 h of drying, examine the test panels as follows:
—	 visually, as described in ISO 13076, for any change except in gloss, haze and colour, designating the 
change in accordance with ISO 4628-1;
—	 for gloss, in accordance with ISO 2813;
—	 for haze, in accordance with ISO 13803;
—	 for colour, in accordance with ISO 18314-1.
Measure the gloss, haze or colour of the test panels across the direction of scratching. Only make 
measurements in the test area (see 3.2).
Calculate the mean of three readings across the entire area of damage on the test panels. From these 
values, calculate the difference in gloss, haze or colour, or the percentage change in gloss or haze and 
the difference in colour (ΔE), relative to the initial reading. If agreed, an optical imaging analysis may 
be carried out.
Depending on the paint system used, the reflow effect, i.e. the self-repairing effect, might be more or 
less evident. The conditions of the evaluation after washing shall therefore be agreed between the 
interested parties.
10	Precision
10.1	Repeatability limit r 
The repeatability limit, r, is the value below which the absolute difference between two single test 
results, each the mean of duplicates, can be expected to lie when this method is used under repeatability 
conditions, i.e. when the test results are obtained on identical material by one operator in one laboratory 
within a short interval of time using the standardized test method. For this method, in the case of gloss 
measurement (reflectometer readings), r is 14 units, with a 95 % probability.
10.2	Reproducibility limit, R 
The reproducibility limit, R, is the value below which the absolute difference between two test results, 
each the mean of duplicates, can be expected to lie when this test method is used under reproducibility 
conditions, i.e. when the test results are obtained on identical material by operators in different 
laboratories using the standardized test method. For this method, in the case of gloss measurement 
(reflectometer readings), R is 20 units, with a 95 % probability.
11	Test report
The test report shall contain at least the following information:
a)	 all information necessary for the identification of the sample tested;
﻿
© ISO 2020 – All rights reserved
5
