# ISO_2409-2007_英文版.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
Reference number
ISO 2409:2007(E)
© ISO 2007
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL 
STANDARD 
ISO
2409
Third edition
2007-05-15
Paints and varnishes — Cross-cut test 
Peintures et vernis — Essai de quadrillage 
 


ISO 2409:2007(E) 
PDF disclaimer 
This PDF file may contain embedded typefaces. In accordance with Adobe's licensing policy, this file may be printed or viewed but 
shall not be edited unless the typefaces which are embedded are licensed to and installed on the computer performing the editing. In 
downloading this file, parties accept therein the responsibility of not infringing Adobe's licensing policy. The ISO Central Secretariat 
accepts no liability in this area. 
Adobe is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated. 
Details of the software products used to create this PDF file can be found in the General Info relative to the file; the PDF-creation 
parameters were optimized for printing. Every care has been taken to ensure that the file is suitable for use by ISO member bodies. In 
the unlikely event that a problem relating to it is found, please inform the Central Secretariat at the address given below. 
 
 
COPYRIGHT PROTECTED DOCUMENT 
 
©   ISO 2007 
All rights reserved. Unless otherwise specified, no part of this publication may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, 
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and microfilm, without permission in writing from either ISO at the address below or 
ISO's member body in the country of the requester. 
ISO copyright office 
Case postale 56 • CH-1211 Geneva 20 
Tel.  + 41 22 749 01 11 
Fax  + 41 22 749 09 47 
E-mail  copyright@iso.org 
Web  www.iso.org 
Published in Switzerland 
 
ii 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved
 
 


ISO 2409:2007(E) 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved 
iii
Contents 
Page 
Foreword............................................................................................................................................................ iv 
1 
Scope ..................................................................................................................................................... 1 
2 
Normative references ........................................................................................................................... 1 
3 
Apparatus .............................................................................................................................................. 2 
4 
Sampling................................................................................................................................................ 5 
5 
Test panels ............................................................................................................................................ 5 
6 
Procedure .............................................................................................................................................. 5 
7 
Supplementary test conditions ........................................................................................................... 8 
8 
Evaluation and expression of results................................................................................................. 8 
9 
Precision................................................................................................................................................ 9 
10 
Test report ........................................................................................................................................... 10 
Bibliography ..................................................................................................................................................... 11 
 


ISO 2409:2007(E) 
iv 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved
 
Foreword 
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies 
(ISO member bodies). The work of preparing International Standards is normally carried out through ISO 
technical committees. Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical committee has been 
established has the right to be represented on that committee. International organizations, governmental and 
non-governmental, in liaison with ISO, also take part in the work. ISO collaborates closely with the 
International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) on all matters of electrotechnical standardization. 
International Standards are drafted in accordance with the rules given in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2. 
The main task of technical committees is to prepare International Standards. Draft International Standards 
adopted by the technical committees are circulated to the member bodies for voting. Publication as an 
International Standard requires approval by at least 75 % of the member bodies casting a vote. 
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent 
rights. ISO shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights. 
ISO 2409 was prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 35, Paints and varnishes, Subcommittee SC 9, 
General test methods for paints and varnishes. 
This third edition cancels and replaces the second edition (ISO 2409:1992), which has been technically 
revised. The main changes are: 
⎯ the requirements for the adhesive tape have been changed; 
⎯ precision data have been added. 
 


INTERNATIONAL STANDARD 
ISO 2409:2007(E)
 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved 
1
Paints and varnishes — Cross-cut test 
1 
Scope 
This International Standard describes a test method for assessing the resistance of paint coatings to 
separation from substrates when a right-angle lattice pattern is cut into the coating, penetrating through to the 
substrate. The property measured by this empirical test procedure depends, among other factors, on the 
adhesion of the coating to either the preceding coat or the substrate. This procedure is not to be regarded, 
however, as a means of measuring adhesion. 
Where a measurement of adhesion is required, attention is drawn to the method described in ISO 4624. 
NOTE 1 
Although the test is primarily intended for use in the laboratory, the test is also suitable for field testing. 
The method described may be used either as a pass/fail test or, where circumstances are appropriate, as a 
six-step classification test. When applied to a multi-coat system, assessment of the resistance to separation of 
individual layers of the coating from each other may be made. 
The test can be carried out on finished objects and/or on specially prepared test specimens. 
Although the method is applicable to paint on hard (e.g. metal) and soft (e.g. wood and plaster) substrates, 
these different substrates need a different test procedure (see Clause 6). 
The method is not suitable for coatings of total thickness greater than 250 µm or for textured coatings. 
NOTE 2 
The method, when applied to coatings designed to give a rough patterned surface, will give results which will 
show too much variation (see also ISO 16276-2). 
2 
Normative references 
The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of this document. For dated 
references, only the edition cited applies. For undated references, the latest edition of the referenced 
document (including any amendments) applies. 
ISO 1513, Paints and varnishes — Examination and preparation of samples for testing 
ISO 1514, Paints and varnishes — Standard panels for testing 
ISO 2808, Paints and varnishes — Determination of film thickness 
ISO 3270, Paints and varnishes and their raw materials — Temperatures and humidities for conditioning and 
testing 
ISO 15528, Paints, varnishes and raw materials for paints and varnishes — Sampling 
IEC 60454-2, Specification for pressure-sensitive adhesive tapes for electrical purposes — Part 2: Methods of 
test 


ISO 2409:2007(E) 
2 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved
 
3 
Apparatus 
3.1 General 
Use ordinary laboratory apparatus, together with the apparatus specified in 3.2 to 3.6. 
3.2 Cutting tool 
3.2.1 
General requirements 
It is particularly important to ensure that the cutting tool has a defined shape and that the cutting edges are in 
good condition. Suitable tools are described in 3.2.2 and 3.2.3 and shown in Figures 1a) and 1b). 
A single-blade cutting tool (3.2.2) is the preferred tool in all cases, i.e. with all kinds of coating on both hard 
and soft substrates. The multi-blade cutting tool (3.2.3) is not suitable for thick (> 120 µm) or hard coatings or 
where the coating is applied over soft substrates. 
The tools described in 3.2.2 and 3.2.3 are suitable for manual use and, although this is the more usual method 
of use, the tool may be mounted on a motor-driven apparatus which gives more uniform cutting. The 
application of the latter procedure shall be subject to agreement between the interested parties. 
3.2.2 
Single-blade cutting tool 
A single-blade cutting tool shall have a 20° to 30° edge and a blade thickness of (
)
0,03
0,03
0,43+
−
mm as shown in 
Figure 1a). 
When the cutting edge has worn to 0,1 mm it shall be reground. 
3.2.3 
Multi-blade cutting tool 
A multi-blade cutting tool shall have six cutting edges spaced 1 mm, 2 mm or 3 mm apart [see Figure 1b)].  
The width across the six cutting edges, a, shall be 5 mm for a tool which has a cutting-edge spacing of 1 mm, 
and 10 mm for a tool which has a cutting-edge spacing of 2 mm. 
When the cutting edge has worn to 0,1 mm it shall be reground. 
The guide edges and the cutting edges shall lie on the same diameter. 
3.3 Guiding and spacing edges 
In order to space the cuts correctly, a series of guiding and spacing edges is necessary when using a single-
blade cutting tool. A suitable apparatus is shown in Figure 2. 


ISO 2409:2007(E) 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved 
3
Dimensions in millimetres, 
except where indicated otherwise 
 
a)   Single-blade cutting tool 
 
 
b)   Multi-blade cutting tool 
Key 
1 
cutting edges 
a 
width across all six cutting edges 
a 
Regrind when cutting edge has worn to 0,1 mm. 
b 
Guide edges and cutting edges lie on same diameter. 
c 
Direction of cut. 
Figure 1 — Cutting tools 
 


ISO 2409:2007(E) 
4 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved
 
 
Key 
1 
ten spacing edges 1 mm thick 
2 
laminated moulding plastic or steel 
3 
rubber 
Figure 2 — Series of spacing edges 
3.4 Soft brush 
3.5 Pressure-sensitive adhesive tape 
Unless otherwise agreed, adhesive tape with an adhesive strength between 6 N per 25 mm width and 10 N 
per 25 mm width (determined in accordance with IEC 60454-2) shall be used. The tape shall be at least 
50 mm wide. 
NOTE 
Transparent tape is recommended. 
3.6 Viewing lens 
Use a hand-held lens with a magnification of ×2 or ×3. 


ISO 2409:2007(E) 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved 
5
4 
Sampling 
Take a representative sample of the product to be tested, as described in ISO 15528. 
Examine and prepare each sample for testing, as described in ISO 1513. 
5 
Test panels 
5.1 Substrate 
Unless otherwise agreed, select the substrate from one of those described in ISO 1514. 
The panels shall be plane and free from distortion. The dimensions shall be such as to allow the test to be 
carried out at three different positions not less than 5 mm from each other or from an edge of the panel. 
Where panels consist of a relatively soft material such as wood, the minimum thickness shall be 10 mm. 
Where panels consist of a hard material, the minimum thickness shall be 0,25 mm. 
NOTE 1 
Rectangular panels, measuring approximately 150 mm × 100 mm, have been found to be convenient. 
NOTE 2 
In cases where the panel is made of wood, the direction and the structure of the grain can influence the test, 
and a pronounced grain will render the evaluation impossible. 
5.2 Preparation and coating 
Unless otherwise agreed, prepare each test panel in accordance with ISO 1514 and then coat it by the 
specified method with the product or system under test. 
5.3 Drying 
Dry (or stove) and age (if applicable) each coated test panel for the specified time and under the specified 
conditions. 
5.4 Thickness of coating 
Determine the thickness, in micrometres, of the dried coating by one of the procedures specified in ISO 2808. 
Make the measurement at, or as near as possible to, the positions at which the cross-cut is to be made. The 
number of thickness determinations is dependent on the method used. 
6 
Procedure 
6.1 General 
6.1.1 
Test conditions and number of tests 
Carry out the test at a temperature of (23 ± 2) °C and a relative humidity of (50 ± 5) %, unless otherwise 
agreed (see ISO 3270). 
In field tests, the ambient conditions will have to be accepted. 
6.1.2 
Conditioning of the test panels 
Unless otherwise specified, condition the test panels immediately prior to the test at a temperature of 
(23 ± 2) °C and a relative humidity of (50 ± 5) % for a minimum of 16 h. 


ISO 2409:2007(E) 
6 
© ISO 2007 – All rights reserved
 
6.1.3 
Number of cuts 
The number of cuts in each direction of the lattice pattern shall be six. 
6.1.4 
Spacing of cuts 
The spacing of the cuts in each direction shall be equal and shall depend on the thickness of the coating and 
on the type of substrate as follows: 
up to 60 µm: 
1 mm spacing, for hard (e.g. metal) substrates; 
up to 60 µm: 
2 mm spacing, for soft (e.g. wood and plaster) substrates; 
61 µm to 120 µm: 
2 mm spacing, for both hard and soft substrates; 
121 µm to 250 µm: 
3 mm spacing, for both hard and soft substrates. 
The spacing of the cuts shall conform to the hardness of the substrate and the coating. 
6.1.5 
Number of determinations 
Carry out the test in at least three different places (see 5.1) on the panel (see also Clause 8). If the results do 
not match, the differences being more than one classification unit, repeat the test at three other places, if 
necessary using different panels, and record all the results. 
6.2 Cutting and removing the coating using the manual procedure 
6.2.1 
Place the test panel on a rigid, flat surface to prevent any deformation of the panel during the test. 
6.2.2 
Before the test, inspect the cutting edge of the blade and maintain its condition by sharpening or 
replacement. 
Perform the cutting manually, following the specified procedure. 
If the panel is of wood or similar material, make the cuts at approximately 45° to the direction of the grain. 
6.2.3 
Hold the cutting tool (3.2) with the blade normal to the test panel surface. With uniform pressure on 
the cutting tool and using the appropriate spacing guide (3.3), make the agreed number of cuts in the coating 
at a uniform cutting rate. All the cuts shall penetrate to the substrate surface. 
If, because of the hardness of the coating, it is not possible to penetrate to the substrate, the test shall be 
declared invalid and so reported. 
6.2.4 
Repeat this operation, making further parallel cuts of equal number, crossing the original cuts at 90° to 
them so that a lattice pattern is formed. 
6.2.5 
Brush the panel lightly with the soft brush (3.4) several times backwards and several times forwards 
along each of the diagonals of the lattice pattern. 
6.2.6 
For hard substrates and for wood, apply additionally adhesive tape (3.5). If beginning a new series of 
tests, remove two complete laps from a reel of the adhesive tape and discard. Remove an additional length at 
a steady rate and cut a piece approximately 75 mm long. 
Place the centre of the tape over the lattice in a direction parallel to one set of cuts as shown in Figure 3 and 
smooth the tape into place over the area of the lattice and for a distance of at least 20 mm beyond with a 
finger. 
