# ISO_1463.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference number
ISO 1463:2003(E)
© ISO 2003
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL 
STANDARD 
ISO
1463
Third edition
2003-03-01
Metallic and oxide coatings — 
Measurement of coating thickness — 
Microscopical method 
Revêtements métalliques et couches d'oxyde — Mesurage de 
l'épaisseur de revêtement — Méthode par coupe micrographique 
 
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Reproduced by IHS under license with ISO 
Document provided by IHS Licensee=IHS Employees/1111111001, User=JHOCKLEY, 
03/31/2004 07:54:33 MST Questions or comments about this message: please call
the Document Policy Group at 303-397-2295.
--`,,``,```,,`,,,`,`,,```,``,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


ISO 1463:2003(E) 
PDF disclaimer 
This PDF file may contain embedded typefaces. In accordance with Adobe's licensing policy, this file may be printed or viewed but 
shall not be edited unless the typefaces which are embedded are licensed to and installed on the computer performing the editing. In 
downloading this file, parties accept therein the responsibility of not infringing Adobe's licensing policy. The ISO Central Secretariat 
accepts no liability in this area. 
Adobe is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated. 
Details of the software products used to create this PDF file can be found in the General Info relative to the file; the PDF-creation 
parameters were optimized for printing. Every care has been taken to ensure that the file is suitable for use by ISO member bodies. In 
the unlikely event that a problem relating to it is found, please inform the Central Secretariat at the address given below. 
 
©   ISO 2003 
All rights reserved. Unless otherwise specified, no part of this publication may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, 
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and microfilm, without permission in writing from either ISO at the address below or 
ISO's member body in the country of the requester. 
ISO copyright office 
Case postale 56 • CH-1211 Geneva 20 
Tel.  + 41 22 749 01 11 
Fax  + 41 22 749 09 47 
E-mail  copyright@iso.org 
Web  www.iso.org 
Published in Switzerland 
 
ii 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved
 
 
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Reproduced by IHS under license with ISO 
Document provided by IHS Licensee=IHS Employees/1111111001, User=JHOCKLEY, 
03/31/2004 07:54:33 MST Questions or comments about this message: please call
the Document Policy Group at 303-397-2295.
--`,,``,```,,`,,,`,`,,```,``,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


ISO 1463:2003(E) 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved 
iii
 
Contents 
Page 
Foreword............................................................................................................................................................ iv 
1 
Scope...................................................................................................................................................... 1 
2 
Normative references ........................................................................................................................... 1 
3 
Term and definition............................................................................................................................... 1 
4 
Principle ................................................................................................................................................. 1 
5 
Factors relating to measurement uncertainty.................................................................................... 2 
5.1 
Surface roughness................................................................................................................................ 2 
5.2 
Taper of cross-section.......................................................................................................................... 2 
5.3 
Deformation of coating......................................................................................................................... 2 
5.4 
Rounding of edge of coating ............................................................................................................... 2 
5.5 
Overplating ............................................................................................................................................ 2 
5.6 
Etching ................................................................................................................................................... 2 
5.7 
Smearing................................................................................................................................................ 2 
5.8 
Magnification......................................................................................................................................... 2 
5.9 
Calibration of stage micrometer.......................................................................................................... 3 
5.10 
Calibration of micrometer eyepiece .................................................................................................... 3 
5.11 
Alignment............................................................................................................................................... 3 
5.12 
Uniformity of magnification ................................................................................................................. 3 
5.13 
Lens quality ........................................................................................................................................... 3 
5.14 
Orientation of eyepiece ........................................................................................................................ 3 
5.15 
Tube length............................................................................................................................................ 3 
6 
Preparation of cross-sections ............................................................................................................. 4 
7 
Measurement ......................................................................................................................................... 4 
8 
Measurement uncertainty..................................................................................................................... 4 
9 
Test report.............................................................................................................................................. 4 
Annex A (informative)  Guidance on the preparation and measurement of cross-sections ....................... 5 
Annex B (informative)  Taper of cross-section and measurement of tooth-constructed coatings ............ 7 
Annex C (informative)  Some typical etchants for use at room temperature .............................................. 10 
Bibliography ..................................................................................................................................................... 11 
 
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Reproduced by IHS under license with ISO 
Document provided by IHS Licensee=IHS Employees/1111111001, User=JHOCKLEY, 
03/31/2004 07:54:33 MST Questions or comments about this message: please call
the Document Policy Group at 303-397-2295.
--`,,``,```,,`,,,`,`,,```,``,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


ISO 1463:2003(E) 
iv 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved
 
Foreword 
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies 
(ISO member bodies). The work of preparing International Standards is normally carried out through ISO 
technical committees. Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical committee has been 
established has the right to be represented on that committee. International organizations, governmental and 
non-governmental, in liaison with ISO, also take part in the work. ISO collaborates closely with the 
International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) on all matters of electrotechnical standardization. 
International Standards are drafted in accordance with the rules given in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2. 
The main task of technical committees is to prepare International Standards. Draft International Standards 
adopted by the technical committees are circulated to the member bodies for voting. Publication as an 
International Standard requires approval by at least 75 % of the member bodies casting a vote. 
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent 
rights. ISO shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights. 
ISO 1463 was prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 107, Metallic and other inorganic coatings, 
Subcommittee SC 2, Test methods. 
This third edition cancels and replaces the second edition (ISO 1463:1982), which has been technically 
revised. 
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Reproduced by IHS under license with ISO 
Document provided by IHS Licensee=IHS Employees/1111111001, User=JHOCKLEY, 
03/31/2004 07:54:33 MST Questions or comments about this message: please call
the Document Policy Group at 303-397-2295.
--`,,``,```,,`,,,`,`,,```,``,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


INTERNATIONAL STANDARD 
ISO 1463:2003(E)
 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved 
1
 
Metallic and oxide coatings — Measurement of coating 
thickness — Microscopical method 
1 
Scope 
This International Standard describes a method for the measurement of the local thickness of metallic 
coatings, oxide layers, and porcelain or vitreous enamel coatings, by the microscopical examination of 
cross-sections using an optical microscope. 
WARNING — The use of this document may involve the use of hazardous materials, operations and 
equipment. This document does not address any health hazard and safety issues associated with its 
use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate health and safety practices and to take 
suitable action to comply with any national and/or local regulations prior to its use. 
2 
Normative references 
The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of this document. For dated 
references, only the edition cited applies. For undated references, the latest edition of the referenced 
document (including any amendments) applies. 
ISO 2064, Metallic and other inorganic coatings — Definitions and conventions concerning the measurement 
of thickness 
3 
Term and definition 
For the purposes of this document the following term and definition apply. 
3.1 
local thickness 
the mean of the thickness measurements, of which a specified number is made within a reference area 
[3.4 of ISO 2064:1996] 
4 
Principle 
A portion of the test specimen is cut out and mounted. The mounted cross-section is prepared by suitable 
techniques of grinding, polishing and etching. The thickness of the coating cross-section is measured by 
means of a calibrated scale. 
NOTE 
These techniques will be familiar to experienced metallographers, but some guidance is given in Clause 5 and 
in Annex A for less experienced operators. 
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Reproduced by IHS under license with ISO 
Document provided by IHS Licensee=IHS Employees/1111111001, User=JHOCKLEY, 
03/31/2004 07:54:33 MST Questions or comments about this message: please call
the Document Policy Group at 303-397-2295.
--`,,``,```,,`,,,`,`,,```,``,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


ISO 1463:2003(E) 
2 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved
 
5 
Factors relating to measurement uncertainty 
5.1 Surface roughness 
If the coating or its substrate has a rough surface, one or both of the interfaces bounding the coating cross-
section may be too irregular to permit accurate measurement. (See A.5.) 
5.2 Taper of cross-section 
If the plane of the cross-section is not perpendicular to the plane of the coating, the measured thickness will 
be greater than the true thickness; e.g., an inclination of 10° to the perpendicular will contribute a 1,5 % error. 
NOTE 
B.1 provides guidance on taper cross-section. 
5.3 Deformation of coating 
Detrimental deformation of the coating can be caused by excessive temperature or pressure during mounting 
and preparation of cross-sections of soft coatings or coatings that melt at a low temperature, and also by 
excessive abrasion of brittle materials during preparation of cross-sections. 
5.4 Rounding of edge of coating 
If the edge of the coating cross-section is rounded, i.e. if the coating cross-section is not completely flat up to 
its edges, the true thickness cannot be observed microscopically. Edge rounding can be caused by improper 
mounting, grinding, polishing or etching. It is usually minimized by overplating the test specimen before 
mounting. (See A.2.) 
5.5 Overplating 
Overplating of the test specimen protects the coating edges during preparation of cross-sections and thus 
prevents erroneous measurement. Removal of coating material during surface preparation for overplating can 
result in a low thickness measurement. 
5.6 Etching 
Optimum etching produces a clearly defined and narrow dark line at the interface of two metals. Excessive 
etching produces a poorly defined or wide line that can result in erroneous measurement. 
5.7 Smearing 
Improper polishing or overplating with a softer metal may cause smearing of one metal over the other metal, 
obscuring the boundary between the coating and the substrate. This problem may be alleviated by repeating 
the preparation of the cross section of the coated metal until repeatability of the thickness measurement 
(see A.3 and A.5) is obtained and also by over-plating with a harder metal. 
5.8 Magnification 
For any given coating thickness, measurement uncertainty generally increase with decreasing magnification. 
The magnification should be chosen so that the field of view is between 1,5 × and 3 × the coating thickness. 
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Reproduced by IHS under license with ISO 
Document provided by IHS Licensee=IHS Employees/1111111001, User=JHOCKLEY, 
03/31/2004 07:54:33 MST Questions or comments about this message: please call
the Document Policy Group at 303-397-2295.
--`,,``,```,,`,,,`,`,,```,``,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


ISO 1463:2003(E) 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved 
3
 
5.9 Calibration of stage micrometer 
Any error in calibration of the stage micrometer will be reflected in the measurement of the specimen. Errors 
of several percent are not unrealistic unless the scale has been calibrated or has been certified by a 
responsible supplier. A generally satisfactory means of calibration is to assume that the stated length of the 
full scale is correct, to measure each subdivision with a filar micrometer, and to calculate the length of each 
sub-division by simple proportion. 
5.10 Calibration of micrometer eyepiece 
A filar micrometer eyepiece generally provides the most satisfactory means of making the measurement of the 
specimen. The measurement will be no more accurate than the calibration of the eyepiece. As calibration is 
operator dependent, the eyepiece shall be calibrated by the person making the measurement. 
Repeated calibrations of the micrometer eyepiece can be reasonably expected to have a spread of less than 
1 %. The distance between the two lines of a stage micrometer used for the calibration shall be known to 
within 0,2 µm or 0,1 %, whichever is the greater. If a stage micrometer is not certified for accuracy, it shall be 
calibrated. 
NOTE 
The measurement uncertainty of some stage micrometers is certified by the manufacturer. Other stage 
micrometers have been found to have a measurement uncertainty of 1 µm or 2 µm for a measurement distance of 2 mm 
and by 0,4 µm and more for measurement distances of 0,1 mm and 0,01 mm. 
Some image splitting micrometer eyepieces have a non-linearity that introduces an error of up to 1 % for short 
measurement distances. 
5.11 Alignment 
Errors can be introduced by backlash in the movement of the micrometer eyepiece. To eliminate this error, 
ensure that the final motion during alignment of the hairline is always made in the same direction. 
5.12 Uniformity of magnification 
Because errors can occur if the magnification is not uniform over the entire field, ensure that both the 
calibration and the measurement are made over the same portion of the field with the measured boundaries 
centred about the optical axis. 
5.13 Lens quality 
As lack of sharpness of the image contributes to the uncertainty of the measurement, ensure that good quality 
lenses are used. 
NOTE 
Sometimes, image sharpness can be improved by using monochromatic light. 
5.14 Orientation of eyepiece 
Ensure that the movement of the hairline of the eyepiece for alignment is perpendicular to the boundaries of 
the coating cross-section; e.g., 10° misalignment will contribute a 1,5 % error. 
5.15 Tube length 
A change in tube length causes a change in magnification and, if this change occurs between the time of 
calibration and the time of measurement, the measurement will be in error. Take care to avoid a change in 
tube length, which can occur when the eyepiece is repositioned within the tube, when the focus of the 
eyepiece tube is changed and, for some microscopes, when the fine focus is adjusted. 
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Reproduced by IHS under license with ISO 
Document provided by IHS Licensee=IHS Employees/1111111001, User=JHOCKLEY, 
03/31/2004 07:54:33 MST Questions or comments about this message: please call
the Document Policy Group at 303-397-2295.
--`,,``,```,,`,,,`,`,,```,``,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


ISO 1463:2003(E) 
4 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved
 
6 
Preparation of cross-sections 
Prepare, mount, grind, polish, and etch the specimen so that: 
a) 
the cross-section is perpendicular to the coating; 
b) 
the surface is flat and the entire width of the coating image is simultaneously in focus at the magnification 
to be used for the measurement; 
c) 
all material deformed by cutting or cross-sectioning is removed; 
d) 
the boundaries of the coating cross-section are sharply defined by no more than contrasting appearance, 
or by a narrow, well defined, line. 
NOTE 
Further guidance is given in Clause 5 and in Annex A. Some typical etchants are described in Annex C. 
7 
Measurement 
7.1 
Give appropriate attention to the factors listed in Clause 5 and Annex A. 
7.2 
Calibrate the microscope and its measuring device with a certified or calibrated stage micrometer. 
7.3 
Measure the width of the image of the coating cross-section on at least five points distributed along a 
length of the microsection. 
NOTE 
Guidance on the measurement of taper of cross-section and of tooth-constructed coatings is given in Annex B. 
8 
Measurement uncertainty 
The microscope and associated equipment, its use, its calibration and the method of preparation of the cross-
section shall be chosen so as to allow the coating thickness to be determined to within 1 µm or 10 %, 
whichever is the greater, of the actual coating thickness. The method is capable of giving an absolute 
measurement uncertainty of 0,8 µm, and for thicknesses greater than 25 µm a reasonable measurement 
uncertainty is of the order of 5 % or better (see also B.3.). However, with careful preparation of the specimen 
and the application of suitable instruments this method is capable of providing a measurement uncertainty of 
0,4 µm under reproducible conditions. 
9 
Test report 
The test report shall include the following information: 
a) 
reference of this document, i.e. ISO 1463; 
b) 
identity of the test specimen; 
c) 
results of the test, indicating 
1) 
location on the coated item at which the cross-section was made; 
2) 
measured thickness, in micrometres (millimetres if greater than 1 mm) at each point (see 7.3); 
3) 
local thickness, i.e., the arithmetic mean of the measured thicknesses; 
d) 
any deviations from the procedure specified; 
e) 
any unusual features (anomalies) observed during the test; 
f) 
date of test. 
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Reproduced by IHS under license with ISO 
Document provided by IHS Licensee=IHS Employees/1111111001, User=JHOCKLEY, 
03/31/2004 07:54:33 MST Questions or comments about this message: please call
the Document Policy Group at 303-397-2295.
--`,,``,```,,`,,,`,`,,```,``,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


ISO 1463:2003(E) 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved 
5
 
Annex A 
(informative) 
 
Guidance on the preparation and measurement of cross-sections 
A.1 Introduction 
The preparation of test specimens and measurement of coating thickness are greatly dependent on individual 
techniques and there is a variety of suitable techniques available. It is not reasonable to specify only one set 
of techniques, and it is impractical to include all suitable techniques. The techniques described in this annex 
are intended as guidance for metallographers not experienced in measurements of coating thickness. 
A.2 Mounting 
To prevent rounding of the edge of the coating cross-section, the free surface of the coating should be 
supported so that there is no space between the coating and its support. This is usually achieved by 
overplating the specimen with a coating of a metal of similar hardness, at least 10 µm thick. For hard, brittle 
coatings (e.g. oxide or chromium coatings), tightly wrapping the specimen in soft aluminium foil before 
mounting has proved successful. 
If the coating is soft, overplating with a metal that is softer will make polishing more difficult, because the softer 
metal tends to be polished away more rapidly. 
Overplating of zinc or cadmium coatings with copper can cause difficulty because of the tendency of dissolved 
copper to deposit on the coatings during subsequent etching. It is better to overplate zinc with cadmium and 
vice versa. 
A.3 Grinding and polishing 
It is essential to keep the cross-section surface of the mount perpendicular to the coating. This is facilitated by 
incorporating additional pieces of a similar metal near the outer edges of the plastic mounting, by periodically 
changing the direction of grinding (rotating through 90°) and by keeping the grinding time and pressure to a 
minimum. If, before grinding, reference marks are inscribed on the sides of the mount, any inclination from 
horizontal is easily measurable 
Grind the mounted test specimens on suitable abrasive paper, using an acceptable lubricant, such as water or 
white spirit, and apply minimum pressure to avoid bevelling of the surface. Initial grinding should employ 
100 grade or 180 grade abrasive to reveal the true test specimen profile and to remove any deformed metal. 
Subsequently, use grades 240, 320, 500 and 600 without exceeding grinding times of 30 s to 40 s on each 
paper; alter the direction of scratches by 90° for each change of paper. A final polish for 2 min to 3 min on a 
rotating wheel charged with 4 µm to 8 µm diamond paste particles and lubrication with white spirit should 
suffice to remove scratches for final examination. If an especially high degree of surface finish is required, a 
further treatment, using diamond paste of approximately 1 µm particles, may be used. 
If very soft materials are being prepared, abrasive particles can become embedded during grinding. This may 
be minimized by totally immersing abrasive papers in a lubricant during grinding or by using a copious flow of 
lubricant. If abrasive particles do become embedded, they may be removed by applying a short, light hand 
polish with metal polish after grinding and before diamond finishing or by one or more cycles of alternate 
etching and polishing. 
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Reproduced by IHS under license with ISO 
Document provided by IHS Licensee=IHS Employees/1111111001, User=JHOCKLEY, 
03/31/2004 07:54:33 MST Questions or comments about this message: please call
the Document Policy Group at 303-397-2295.
--`,,``,```,,`,,,`,`,,```,``,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


ISO 1463:2003(E) 
6 
© ISO 2003 — All rights reserved
 
A.4 Etching 
Etching is usually advisable in order to promote contrast between the metal layers to remove traces of 
smeared metal and to develop a fine line at the boundary of the coating. Some typical etchants are given in 
Annex C. 
A.5 Measurement 
The measuring device may be a filar micrometer or a micrometer eyepiece. The latter has lower precision. An 
image splitting eyepiece is advantageous for thin coatings on rough substrate surfaces. Measurement of the 
image projected on a ground glass plate is usually less satisfactory because of the lack of sharpness of the 
image and poor legibility of the rule when the projected image is visible. 
The measuring device should be calibrated at least once before and once after a measurement, unless 
repeated experience indicates otherwise. 
When making calibration and coating measurements both should be made by the same operator, the stage 
micrometer and the coating should be centred in the field and each measurement at a point should be made 
at least twice and averaged. 
For critical and referee measurements, all steps for preparation of cross-sections and measurement of coating 
thickness, from grinding with 600 grade or coarser abrasive, up to and including the determination of coating 
thickness, should be performed at least twice. With good techniques and equipment, and smooth coating and 
substrate surfaces, repeatability within 2 % or 0,5 µm, whichever is the greater, is reasonable. 
Some microscopes are subject to a spontaneous movement of the stage relative to the objective, possibly due 
to non-uniform thermal effects from the light source. Such a movement during the measurement can cause an 
erroneous measurement at moderate and high magnifications. This can be minimized by completing the 
measurement quickly and by measuring each interval twice, once from left to right and once from right to left. 
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Reproduced by IHS under license with ISO 
Document provided by IHS Licensee=IHS Employees/1111111001, User=JHOCKLEY, 
03/31/2004 07:54:33 MST Questions or comments about this message: please call
the Document Policy Group at 303-397-2295.
--`,,``,```,,`,,,`,`,,```,``,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
