# j2527正式_200402-外饰件.pdf

 SURFACE 
 
VEHICLE 
 
STANDARD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance Based Standard for Accelerated Exposure of Automotive  
Exterior Materials Using A Controlled Irradiance Xenon-Arc Apparatus 
 
 
 
SAE Technical Standards Board Rules provide that: ‘‘This report is published by SAE to advance the state of technical and engineering sciences.  The use of this report is 
entirely voluntary, and its applicability and suitability for any particular use, including any patent infringement arising therefrom, is the sole responsibility of the user.’’ 
SAE reviews each technical report at least every five years at which time it may be reaffirmed, revised, or cancelled.  SAE invites your written comments and suggestions. 
Copyright © 2004 SAE International 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, 
recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of SAE. 
TO PLACE A DOCUMENT ORDER: 
Tel:       877-606-7323 (inside USA and Canada) 
 
 
Tel:      724-776-4970 (outside USA) 
 
 
Fax:     724-776-0790 
 
 
Email:   custsvc@sae.org 
SAE WEB ADDRESS: 
 
http://www.sae.org 
 Issued 
2004-02  
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
®   J2527 
 
 
 ISSUED 
 FEB2004 
1. 
Scope 
1.1 
This SAE Standard specifies the operating procedures for a controlled irradiance, xenon-arc 
apparatus used for the accelerated exposure of various exterior automotive materials. 
1.2 
This is a performance standard based on the test parameters of SAE J1960. 
1.3 
The sample preparation, test durations, and performance evaluation procedures are covered in 
material specifications of the different automotive manufacturers. 
1.4 
Equipment qualified to perform this test is determined by material test comparison between 
instruments approved for SAE J1960 and those intending to perform SAE J2527.  A specific test 
protocol to compare new test equipment to those previously approved must be done by material 
test comparison by the contractual parties.  The interested contractual companies shall identify 
details of the test protocol and the materials to be tested.  At the time of publication of this test 
method, this committee is developing a ‘Protocol To Verify New Test Apparatus’ identified as SAE 
J2413. 
2. 
References 
2.1 
Applicable Publications 
The following publication form a part of this specification to the extent specified herein.  The latest issue 
of SAE publications shall apply. 
2.1.1 
SAE PUBLICATIONS 
Available from SAE, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001. www.sae.org 
 
SAE J1545 – Instrumental Color Difference Measurement for Exterior Finishes, Textiles and Colored 
Trim, Recommended Practice  
SAE J1960 - Accelerated Exposure of Automotive Exterior Materials Using a Controlled Irradiance Water 
Cooled Xenon Arc Apparatus 


 
SAE J2527 Issued FEB2004 
 
 
 
- 2 - 
2.1.2 
ASTM PUBLICATIONS 
Available from ASTM, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959.  www.astm.org  
 
ASTM G 113 Standard Terminology Relating to Natural and Artificial for Non-Metallic Materials 
ASTM G 130 Standard Method for Calibration of Narrow and Broad-Band Ultraviolet Radiometers Using 
a Spectroradiometer 
ASTM G 147 Standard Practice for conditioning and Handling of Nonmetallic Materials for Natural and 
Artificial Weathering Tests. 
ASTM G 155 Standard Practice for Operating Xenon Arc Light Apparatus for Exposure of Non-Metallic 
Materials 
ASTM G 151 Standard Practice for Exposing Nonmetallic Materials in Accelerated Test Devices that Use 
laboratory Light Sources. 
ASTM G 156 Standard Practice for Selecting and Characterizing Reference Materials Used to Monitor 
Consistency of Operating Conditions in an Exposure Test. 
ASTM D 859, Standard Test Method for Silica in Water 
ASTM D 4517, Standard Test Method for Low-Level Total Silica in High-Purity Water by Flameless 
Atomic Absorption Spectroscopy 
ASTM D 523, Standard Test Method for Specular Gloss 
ASTM D 660, Standard Test Method for Evaluating Degree of Checking of Exterior Paints 
ASTM D 714 Standard Test Method for Evaluating Degree of Blistering of Paints 
ASTM D 2244, Standard Test Method for Calculation of Color Differences from Instrumentally Measured 
Color Coordinates 
2.2 
Related Publications 
The following publications are for information purposes only and are not a required part of this document. 
2.2.1 
ISO PUBLICATIONS 
Available from ANSI, 25 West 43
rd Street, New York, NY 10036 
 
ISO 4892-1, Plastics - methods of exposure to laboratory light sources, Part 1, General guidelines 
ISO 4892-2, Plastics - Methods of Exposure to laboratory light sources, Part 2 Xenon arc sources 
3. 
Definitions 
3.1 
Black Panel Thermometer, n 
3.1.1 
A temperature-measuring device, the sensing unit of which is coated with black enamel designed 
to absorb most of the radiant energy encountered in fade/weathering testing.  This is referred to 
as an un-insulated Black Panel 
NOTE—These devices provide an estimation of the maximum temperature a specimen might attain 
during exposure to natural or artificial light. 


 
SAE J2527 Issued FEB2004 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
3.2 
BST–Black Standard Thermometer- Insulated Black Panel Thermometer  - Refer to ASTM G 151 
Annex 2 for definition. 
3.3 
Other Definitions 
Definitions applicable to this standard can be found in ASTM G 113. 
4. 
Significance and Use 
4.1 
This test method is designed to simulate extreme environmental conditions encountered outside a 
vehicle such as sunlight, heat, and moisture (in the form of humidity, condensation, or rain) for the 
purpose of predicting the weathering performance of automotive materials. 
5. 
Apparatus 
5.1 
The equipment manufacturer is responsible for the approval of the equipment and for providing the 
proof of compliance of the critical test parameters, including the different spectral power 
distributions (SPDs) that are required by contractual parties.  Materials used for the compliance 
testing should include the approved lots of standard reference materials, such as the Testfabrics 
polystyrene and/or the AATCC L4 & L2 Blue Wools as appropriate.  It is the responsibility of the 
instrument manufacturer to provide all necessary data to demonstrate compliance of each model 
type with this specification.  At the minimum, the data should include (1) all the pertinent spectral 
power distribution (SPD) data for 250-800 nm, (2) repeatability and reproducibility data for the 
current approved lots of standard reference materials.  Contractual parties should agree upon the 
instrument model prior to testing. 
NOTE—In normal practice, different instruments may give different results. The result depends on 
sample characteristics and instrument design.  Refer to ASTM G 155 4.3 and 4.4 for more 
information. 
5.2 
The apparatus employed utilizes a xenon-arc lamp(s) as the source of radiation.  The samples 
shall be mounted in a manner to expose the samples to the uniform conditions of the test chamber. 
 The instrument must have the means to simultaneously and automatically control irradiance, black 
panel temperature, relative humidity and chamber temperature.  Customer and supplier should 
agree upon the manufacturer and model of the cabinet before testing begins. 
5.2.1 
A more detailed description of the apparatus can be found in ASTM G 151 and ASTM G 155 
5.3 
The apparatus must have an un-insulated black panel thermometer as described in ASTM G 151 
unless otherwise agreed upon by contractual parties. 
NOTE—(For Information only): A Black Standard Thermometer – BST- is specified in some standards –  
A Definition can be found in ASTM G 151 Annex two for a BST.  The temperature is to be agreed 
upon by contractual parties.  The BST is typically 5C° higher than the un-insulated black panel.   
5.4 
Manufacturers of exposure devices shall assure that the irradiance at any location in the area used 
for specimen exposures is at least 70% of the maximum irradiance measured in this area. 


 
SAE J2527 Issued FEB2004 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
5.4.1 
Place specimens only in the exposure area where irradiance is at least 90% of the maximum 
irradiance level. 
NOTE—The manufacturer of the equipment supplies verification of the irradiance level. 
6. 
Apparatus Setup 
6.1 
To minimize variability, maintain and calibrate the apparatus to manufacturer's specifications.  
Appendix B describes the use of a reference material to help determine if the xenon-arc apparatus 
is operating properly. 
6.2 
The water for spray and humidification or other purposes shall leave no objectionable deposits or 
stains on the exposed specimens. The water cannot have more than 1-ppm solids and it must have 
less than 0.2 ppm silica. Silica levels should be determined using ASTM procedures D 859 or D 
4517. A combination of deionization and reverse osmosis treatment can effectively produce water 
with the desired purity. In certain cases some samples could exude materials into the chamber that 
can promote deleterious effects on other samples. 
6.3 
Fit the xenon-arc burner with the appropriate optical filters to meet the intended spectral power 
distribution (SPD).  The filters should provide an SPD that falls within the respective ranges shown. 
 Refer to Figure C1 or C2 and/or Table C1 or C2 in Appendix C for typical spectral power 
distribution ranges. 
NOTE—Examples of the SPD of different filter and power intensity combinations are listed in Appendix C. 
 CIE 85 in Figure C 1 and Figure C2 is the reference for Daylight.  The values listed in tables C1 
and C2 are an average of many readings from different pieces of equipment.  One reading from 
one piece of equipment may not exactly match the values that are listed in the tables. 
6.4 
Choose the program cycle which provides 120 minutes of light and 60 min of dark in the following 
cycle: 60 min of dark with both back and front spray, 40 min of light followed by 20 min of light and 
front specimen spray, followed by 60 min of light, and repeating.  The test sequence should follow 
the condition set up in Table 2. 
TABLE 2—TEST SEGMENTS 
Segment 
Light 
Dark 
Spray 
1 
None. 
60 min. 
Front and back 
2 
40 min/ 1.32 kJ•m
-2•nm
-1 
Not 
applicable 
None 
3 
20 min/ 0.66 kJ•m
-2•nm
-1 
Not 
applicable 
Front 
4 
60 min./1.98 kJ•m
-2•nm
-1 
Not 
applicable 
None 
* The radiant dosages (kJ•m
-2•nm
-1 ) listed are based on the J1960 method, which has an irradiance 
specification of 0.55 Wm
-2 nm
-1 at 340 nm.  Equipment monitoring a broad band rather than a narrow band 
or operated at higher irradiance levels will have a different radiant dosages for the time intervals shown.  


 
SAE J2527 Issued FEB2004 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
6.5 
Operate the apparatus to maintain the indicated range at the control panel as in Table 3.  If the 
actual operating conditions at the control panel do not agree with the machine settings after the 
equipment has stabilized, discontinue the test and correct the cause of the disagreement before 
resuming the test. 
TABLE 3—TARGET VALUES AT CONTROL PANEL SENSOR 
Controls 
Dark 
Segment 1 
Light 
Segment 2,3,4 
 
target, 
tolerance 
target 
tolerance 
Automatic irradiance 
None 
 
0.55 Wm
-2 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Black panel temp. 
38 
±3 °C 
70 
± 3 °C 
Chamber air temp. (Dry bulb) 
38 
± 3 °C 
47 
± 3 °C 
Relative humidity 
95 
± 5% 
50 
± 5% 
Radiant exposure 
See applicable specification 
 
See applicable specification 
 
NOTE—The tolerances do not apply during the spray portion of the segments. 
*  0.55 Wm
-2 nm
-1 at 340 nm is the default irradiance for the equipment listed in J1960.  Equipment monitoring a broad band rather than 
the narrow band will have different values.  Other values, higher or lower, agreed upon by contractual parties can be used but they 
invalidate the values listed for the polystyrene reference material shown in Appendix B, as well as the radiant dosages listed in Table 2. 
7. 
Test Procedure 
7.1 
Prepare a specimen to be exposed to fit the specimen holder being used. Refer to ASTM G 147 for 
conditioning and handling of panels. 
7.2 
Specimen sizes must conform to the size of the approved specimen holder.  Specimens that 
exceed these sizes may not give proper exposure results.  The correct means of mounting odd 
sized specimens can be obtained from the contractual parties for which the material is being tested. 
 Distance from the light source is a major factor on the amount of irradiance received and the 
surface temperature of the sample and hence the exposure results obtained from the test.  It is 
important to follow the manufacturer’s guidelines to obtain uniform light exposure on the 
specimens. 
NOTE—It is recommended to seal any cut edges on the test specimens.  The corrosion by products from 
steel panels may stain the test specimens.  Seal cut plastic specimen edges to avoid any by-
products from the substrate. An air-dry primer has been found suitable for this work. Refer to 
ASTM G 147 for specimen preparation and handling. 
7.3 
Fill all unused slots with an inert non-reflective material to maintain desired airflow.  Anodized 
aluminum panels are an example. 
NOTE—High reflectance material may effect the operation of the equipment.  Refer to the manufacturer’s 
instructions for proper operation of the equipment. 
7.4 
After setting up the instrument to run for the required radiant exposure ((kJ•m
-2•nm
-1). Start the test 
at the beginning of a dark cycle. See the applicable material specification. 
NOTE—Once exposure has been initiated, equipment operation should not be interrupted more than once 
daily.  Additional interruptions, e.g. opening the chamber door during the course of daily 
operation may cause variation in test results. 


 
SAE J2527 Issued FEB2004 
 
 
 
- 6 - 
7.5 
For some instruments and/or materials, Periodic repositioning of specimens during the exposure 
period may be needed to ensure that each receives an equal amount of radiant exposure.  
Reposition specimens as agreed upon by contractual parties if no data is available for that material.  
7.6 
Report the change in property as agreed upon by contractual parties  
8. 
Evaluation Report 
8.1 
Measure and record the property change of tested specimens at designated intervals as agreed 
upon by contractual parties.  One or more of the following methods may be used; 
Instrumental Measurements 
SAE J1545 Instrumental Color Difference Measurement for Exterior Finishes, Textiles and Colored Trim, 
Recommended Practice 
 
ASTM D523 Test method for Specular Gloss 
ASTM D660 Test Method for Evaluating Degree of Checking of Exterior Paints 
ASTM D714 Test Method for Evaluating Degree of Blistering of Exterior Paint 
ASTM D2244, Standard Test Method for Calculation of Color Differences from Instrumentally Measured 
Color Coordinates 
9. 
Exposure Report 
9.1 
The exposure report is as agreed upon by contractual parties. 
9.2 
The following are examples of information that may be contained in the report. 
9.2.1 
A copy of the exposure report (Figure 1)
  indicating the color change of the exposed reference 
material in CIELAB color difference units must accompany each exposed specimen being 
submitted for approval.  If any one of the color difference data points is outside the specified 
tolerance (control limits), the cause and corrective action must be indicated in the space 
provided. 
9.2.2 
The Exposure Control/Report form shall include the following additional information: 
9.2.3 
Laboratory Name 
9.2.4 
Type and serial number of exposure equipment 
9.2.5 
Month and Year of equipment operation represented by the control chart. 
9.2.6 
Test method 


 
SAE J2527 Issued FEB2004 
 
 
 
- 7 - 
9.2.7 
Reference material (s) used.  Include lot number. 
9.2.8 
Frequency of operation verification, e.g. daily, three or seven day intervals. 
9.2.9 
Color change, target value, and tolerance in CIELAB color difference units for the reference 
material(s) used. 
9.2.10 The monthly average color difference for the reference material(s). 
9.2.11 Daily record of black panel temperature (BPT)   
9.2.12 Daily record of dry bulb temperature or chamber temperature. 
9.2.13 Daily record of Irradiance. 
PREPARED BY THE SAE TEXTILES AND FLEXIBLE PLASTICS COMMITTEE 
 
 
 
FIGURE 1 


 
SAE J2527 Issued FEB2004 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
APPENDIX A85 
 
CABINET MAINTENANCE AND CALIBRATION 
A.1 
Maintenance 
A.1.1 
For best test results a weathering device must be cleaned regularly.  In general, the frequency of 
cleaning necessary will depend on the quality of water used in the device as well as the quality of 
air used in the device and is present in the laboratory. As mentioned in 6.2, in some cases 
samples could exude materials into the chamber that can promote deleterious effects on other 
samples. This decomposition of test samples may require more frequent cleaning of the test 
chamber. 
A.1.2 
For recommended cleaning practice, please consult the appropriate instruction manual.  Special 
attention must be given to the care of the following: 
Test Chamber 
Conditioning Chamber (If applicable) 
Xenon Filters  
Optical Components 
Black Sensor (BPT or BST) 
Xenon Lamp(s) 
A.1.3 
Check Spray Nozzles daily for signs of clogging.  If continual clogging occurs, additional filters 
may be necessary in the water lines supplying the instrument.  Replace the nozzles following the 
manufacturer’s recommendation. 


 
SAE J2527 Issued FEB2004 
 
 
 
- 9 - 
A.2 
Replacement Schedule 
A.2.1.1 
LAMP ASSEMBLY AND RELATED PARTS 
In general, the xenon lamp and/or its filters should be replaced when the specified irradiance can no 
longer be achieved or when there is visual evidence of deterioration.  Otherwise, adhere strictly to the 
manufacturer’s recommendations for the replacement of all consumable items, especially the following: 
 Xenon lamp(s) 
 Xenon lamp filters 
 Optical components 
A.2.2 
Replace the black panel sensor when surface luster can no longer be maintained, or when any 
bare metal can be seen. 
A.2.3 
Where applicable, inspect wet bulb wick weekly and replace when discoloration or mineral 
deposits are observed.  In all cases, observe manufacturer’s instructions for the maintenance and 
proper operation of the devices humidification system. 
A.3 
Calibration Checks 
A.3.1 
Check controls or program daily (except weekends and holidays) to insure compliance to 
required test parameters.   
A.3.2 
Calibrate the apparatus every two weeks following the procedures detailed in the operating 
manual provided by the manufacturer. It is suggested that the calibration be performed on the 
same day of the week. 


 
SAE J2527 Issued FEB2004 
 
 
 
- 10 - 
APPENDIX B 
PROCEDURE FOR DETERMINING COLORFASTNESS TO LIGHT 
B.1 
Scope 
B.1.1 
Appendix B describes the procedure for using a polystyrene lightfastness standard as a 
reference plastic to assist in determining whether the xenon-arc apparatus is operating properly. 
B.1.2 
Run the polystyrene standard after every calibration (every two weeks) for the specified amount 
of kilojoules per hours. 
B.1.3 
The color difference values in CIELAB units are obtained by instrumentally measuring the 
reference plastic before and after a specified amount of radiant exposure. 
B.1.4 
The polystyrene lightfastness standard may be exposed to a radiant dosage  
(kJ m
-2  nm
-1 @ 340 nm for example), which is equivalent to a period ranging from  
two to seven days. 
NOTE—The Delta b values provided with the standard are based on the J1960 test method.  They do not 
apply to tests that use higher or lower irradiance levels or that use different filter combinations 
other than the enhanced UV filters.  Weathering instruments that monitor UV on a broadband 
rather than a narrowband should apply the equivalent broadband radiant dosages in order to use 
the target values supplied. Note that the broadband  (300 to 400 nm) equivalent of 
0.55 Wm
-2 nm
-1 at 340 nm is approximately 60 Wm 
-2 ). 
B.2 
Procedure 
B.2.1 
Instruments used to determine color difference for this procedure require a capability for 
operation, which includes the specular component and providing CIELAB color values using 
illuminant D-65, 10 degrees observer data.  No substitutions are permitted.  Measurements in 
either a transmittance or a reflectance mode may be used. Only use apertures of 20 mm or 
greater. 
B.2.2 
Calibrate the instrument to be used for the color measurements to the manufacturer's 
instructions. 
B.2.3 
 Reference Material Measurement 
B.2.3.1 
REFLECTANCE MODE 
B.2.3.1.1 
Place a piece of unexposed reference plastic backed with the white tile used for calibration 
against the sample port of the instrument. 
NOTE—Take precautions to avoid any interference from ambient light. 
NOTE—In order to preserve the surface of the White Calibration Tile, It is recommended that a second 
calibration tile be purchased for these measurements. 
