# PV1058.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 22 1 
December 2004 
Chrome-Plated Surfaces 
Determination of the Microcracked Chrome Deposit 
PV 
1058 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
chrome, chromium, microcracked chrome deposit, chrome-plated, 
chromed, cracks 
 
Page 1 of 6 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32/2 
Frau Dr. Hasse 
Tel: -42106 
Laudien 
Dr. Eisenberg 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Test Specification PV 1058, 1999-12: 
─ 
Etching solution recipe changed 
─ 
Designation section included 
Previous issues 
1973-04; 1999-12 
1 
Scope 
This standard describes a method for determining the microcracked chrome deposit on chrome-
plated surfaces. 
2 
Designation 
Microcracked chrome deposit according to PV 1058 
3 
Test 
3.1 
Testing equipment 
A 100 x to 200 x reflected light microscope that has a dark field capacity in addition to the normal 
bright field capacity is required in order to determine the microcracked chrome deposit. In order 
to count the microcracked chrome density, the microscope must either have etched measurement 
lines in the eyepiece or an image recording device that can be calibrated. 
3.2 
Etching solution 
In order to be able to evaluate the microcracked chrome deposit, etching is required in some 
cases. The aqueous etching solution contains 85.0 g/l NaOH and 53.0 g/l K3(Fe(CN))6. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
PV 1058: 2004-12 
 
3.3 
Procedure 
The specimen part is cleaned with alcohol or acetone and viewed at 100 x enlargement under 
the microscope using the dark field. If the microcracked chrome deposit is clearly identifiable, 
the number of cracks per cm is counted using the measurement lines in the eyepiece or by means 
of a calibrated recording. 
If the crack network cannot be perfectly identified, the part must be etched and then viewed anew 
under the microscope. The etching duration is, depending on the condition of the etching solution, 
approx. 10 to 20 min. If a microcracked chrome deposit is still not clearly identifiable after 20 min., 
the etching solution is discarded and made up again and the etching procedure is repeated. 
Alternatively, anodic etching with a couloscope for 5 s at 0.5 A in 10% NaOH is permitted. 
Etched parts should preferably be evaluated at 100 x enlargement in the bright field. If the 
microcrack network cannot be identified perfectly with this method, 200 x enlargement must 
be used for the evaluation. 
3.4 
Test report 
The counted number of cracks and, if required, the crack structure (e.g. incomplete, regular) are 
to be indicated in the test report. 
Example: 600 to 800 cracks/cm, partially incomplete. 
3.5 
Explanations of the images (enlargement = 100 : 1) 
Figures 1 to 6 show typical unacceptable microcracked chrome deposit structures and 
microcracked chrome crack densities. 
Figure 7 shows an irregular microcracked chrome deposit that is the cause of a complaint but 
is still accepted. 
Figures 8 to 11 show microcracked chrome crack densities that were evaluated as being OK. 
 
 
Figure 1 – Irregular microcracked chrome deposit, < 100 to 400 cracks/cm 


Page 3 
PV 1058: 2004-12 
 
 
Figure 2 – Irregular microcracked chrome deposit, < 100 to 200 cracks/cm 
 
Figure 3 – Incomplete microcracked chrome deposit 
 
Figure 4 – Individual crack 


Page 4 
PV 1058: 2004-12 
 
 
 
Figure 5 – Overly coarse microcracked chrome deposit, < 100 cracks/cm 
 
Figure 6 – Overly fine microcracked chrome deposit, > 1,000 cracks/cm 
 
Figure 7 – Irregular microcracked chrome deposit, approx. 200 to 400 cracks/cm 


Page 5 
PV 1058: 2004-12 
 
 
 
Figure 8 – Complete microcracked chrome deposit, approx. 250 to 400 cracks/cm 
 
Figure 9 – Complete two-layer microcracked chrome deposit,  
approx. 300 to 400 cracks/cm in the upper crack layer 


Page 6 
PV 1058: 2004-12 
 
 
 
Figure 10 – Complete microcracked chrome deposit, approx. 400 to 600 cracks/cm 
 
Figure 11 – Complete microcracked chrome deposit, approx. 600 to 800 cracks/cm 
 
 
