# PV1063.pdf

Klass.-Nr. / Class. No. 50221 
September 2006 
Chrome-Plated Surfaces 
Determination of Micropore Density 
PV 
1063 
Konzernnorm 
Descriptors: 
microporosity, chrome, chrome-plated surface, corrosion protection, pore, pore 
density, micropore, micropore density 
Page 1 of 7 
Fachverantwortung/Technical responsibility 
Normung/Standards 
 
K-GQL-1/5 Frau Engelking 
Tel: +49-5361-9-76941 
K-GQL 
Dr. Schilling
E2TC/4 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
E2TC 
Terlinden 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 01.06 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Test Specification PV 1063, 2004-10: 
─
Section 3.5 "Evaluation" extended 
Previous issues 
2004-10 
1 
Scope 
This standard describes a procedure to determine the micropore density of chrome surfaces. 
2 
Description 
Micropore density according to PV 1063. 
3 
Test method 
3.1 
Principle 
The corrosion resistance of chrome surfaces is improved by micropores. They are produced as 
described below: 
A nickel layer containing solid particles is applied below the chrome layer in the layer structure 
substrate/copper/nickel/chrome. Passages (micropores) in the chrome layer result from the solid 
particles. 
These micropores are marked and counted by means of electrolytical deposition of copper crystals. 
The number of pores decreases with increasing thickness of the chrome layer. Areas of compo-
nents that are galvanized in horizontal position, exhibit significantly more pores on the upper side 
than on the underside. Therefore, the pore density shall be determined on several positions distrib-
uted over the whole component. 
3.2 
Test equipment and auxiliary equipment 
─
Pore finder with accessories (see Figure 1): 
─
Copper ring as anode 
─
One-side adhesive ring made of closed-cell polyethylene foam as seal and insulation 
─
Power supply which allows to set the voltages 1 000 mV and -400 mV 
─
Reflected light microscope with illumination through lens, magnification: 100 x, distance be-
tween lens and specimen > 12 mm. In order to count the pores, the microscope shall either 
have etched measurement lines in the eyepiece or an image recording device that can be cali-
The English translation is believed to be accurate.In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
Numerical notation according to ISO practice (see VW 01000). 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
PV 1063: 2006-09 
brated (it must be possible to calibrate the image recording device correspondingly when 
counting the pores through the solution). 
─
Cathodic, alkaline, heavy-metal-free degreasing bath with rectifier. 
─
Ultrasonic bath. 
─
Dropping pipette. 
─
Cover glass. 
Legend: 
1 
Microscope 
2 
Measurement solution 
3 
Copper ring (4 mm thick) 
4 
Polyethylene seal (1 mm thick) 
Figure 1 – Measuring setup 


Page 3 
PV 1063: 2006-09 
3.3 
Reagents 
─
Measurement solution, containing 33 g/l CuSO4x 6aq, 16 g/l H2SO4, 2,25 g/l KCL and 0,1 ml/l 
tenside 
─
Acetone 
─
10% sulphuric acid 
─
Nitric acid 1:1 
3.4 
Procedure 
3.4.1 
Specimen preparation 
Larger components shall be divided into sections (specimens) as plane as possible, which have a 
size of approx. (3 x 3) cm. It is important that they can be easily clamped into the clamping device. 
The specimen surface must not have any visual defects, such as scratches or macrocracks. 
The specimens shall be thoroughly cleaned with deionized water. If it is not possible to wet the sur-
face with water, the specimens shall be cleaned by means of one of the methods described below 
until wetting with water is possible. Finally, the specimens shall be cleaned with deionized water. 
─
The specimens shall be degreased cathodically 1 - 3 min in an alkaline cleaner with 10 A/dm2, 
cleaned with deionized water, pickled with 10% sulphuric acid and again cleaned with deion-
ized water. 
─
The specimens shall first be cleaned with acetone, subsequently in an ultrasonic bath. 
3.4.2 
Preparation of the measuring cell 
The copper ring shall be examined for traces of oxidation and cleaned with nitric acid (1:1), if nec-
essary. The clean copper ring shall be clamped onto the specimen together with the insulation so 
that the connection is leaktight. 
The measurement solution is now filled into the copper ring by means of the dropping pipette. In 
order to obtain a distortion-free image under the microscope, the fluid's surface shall be plane. This
is achieved by sealing the copper ring with a cover glass, avoiding the formation of air bubbles (see 
Figure 2). 
Legend: 
1 
Cover glass 
Figure 2 - Filling the copper ring with measurement solution (cross section) 
The so formed measuring cell is now connected to the switched-off power supply observing the 
correct polarity and placed under the microscope, provided that the minimum distance of 12 mm 
between lens and specimen is maintained. 
1 


Page 4 
PV 1063: 2006-09 
3.4.3 
Deposit 
The following voltages shall be set on the power supply for 30 s each (the voltage sequence shall 
be set automatically, if possible): 
1. 
1 000 mV 
2. 
no voltage 
3. 
-400 mV 
3.5 
Evaluation 
Preferably, the evaluation shall be performed directly under the microscope. The magnification 
shall be 100 x; the evaluation shall take place in the bright field. This is the best way to distinguish 
between the occurring copper crystals and passive pores or other contaminations and to count 
them. If image-recording methods are used for the evaluation, it is suitable to document the meas-
uring area before and after the test by means of a photo. The copper crystals shall be counted on a 
defined surface area of the microscopic image and extrapolated to one square centimeter. 
See also the following examples (Figures 3 to 7). All pictures were taken acc. to PV 1063 in re-
flected light with a 100 x magnification and have a size of 1,02 mm x 1,35. This corresponds to a 
section size of 1,38 mm2. The pictures with the same number show the same measuring area of 
the specimen, 
a) which has been recorded before the deposit through the electrolytic solution, 
b) which has been recorded after the deposit through the electrolytic solution, 
c) 
whose deposited copper crystals from b) are encircled in red. 
If an evaluation directly under the microscope is not possible (e.g. because the distance between 
the lens and the specimen is not large enough, see Section 3.4.2), the copper ring shall be re-
moved from the specimen, the surface shall be carefully cleaned with deionized water and dried in 
hot air. Subsequently, the copper crystals shall be counted under the microscope. 
In case of arbitration the test and evaluation shall be performed under the microscope. 
If counting is performed on part surfaces on a photo, each part surface shall contain at least 30 
pores. 
3.6 
Test report 
The result of the count shall be indicated as pore density according to PV 1063 in pores per square 
centimeter. The position on the component which refers to the result shall be documented by 
means of a photo or a drawing. If the pores have been counted after removal of the copper ring 
and not in the measuring cell, this shall be noted in the test report. 


Page 5 
PV 1063: 2006-09 
a) 
b) 
c) 
Figure 3 - 13 pores/1,38 mm2, 940 pores/cm2
a) 
b) 
c) 
Figure 4 - 61 pores/1,38 mm2, 4 420 pores/cm2 (mat chrome) 


Page 6 
PV 1063: 2006-09 
a) 
b) 
c) 
Figure 5 - 67 pores/1,38 mm2 = 4 860 pores/cm2
a) 
b) 
c) 
Figure 6 - 70 pores/1,38 mm2, 5 070 pores/cm2


Page 7 
PV 1063: 2006-09 
a) 
b) 
c) 
Figure 7 - 248 pores/1,38 mm2, 18 000 pores/cm2
