# PV1065.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 50 22 1 
July 2005 
Chrome-Plated Surfaces 
Determination of Potential Differences and Layer 
Thicknesses of Nickel Coatings 
PV 
1065 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
potential difference, layer thickness, coating thickness, nickel layer, nickel 
coating, bright nickel, semi-bright nickel, nickel coat 
 
 
Page 1 of 6 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-GQL-1/5 Frau Hoffmann 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-76941 
Dr. Schilling 
Wiesner 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 01.05 
1 
Scope 
This standard describes a procedure to determine potential differences and thicknesses of nickel 
coatings. 
2 
Description 
Potential difference acc. to PV 1065 
Layer thickness acc. to PV 1065 
3 
Test method 
3.1 
Principle 
During chrome plating of parts, nickel layers of different electrical potentials are deposited. These 
potential differences and layer thicknesses have an influence on corrosion. 
The nickel layers shall be separated from the substrate by means of an anodic galvanostatic 
separation method (at constant current) within an exactly defined surface. During this process, the 
potential course shall be recorded with respect to a reference electrode (Ag/AgCl) and represented 
in a potential/layer thickness diagram. On the basis of this diagram the potential differences 
between the nickel layers and the layer thicknesses shall be determined. 
This measuring procedure is a modification of the coulometric layer thickness measurement acc. to 
DIN EN ISO 2177 based on ASTM B 764. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
PV 1065: 2005-07 
 
 
 
Legend 
1 
Start of layer separation 
2 
Separation of bright nickel layer 
3 
Separation of semi-bright nickel layer 
4 
End of separation 
5 
Bright nickel 
6 
Semi-bright nickel 
7 
Copper 
8 
Cathode (counter electrode) 
9 
Silver cone (reference electrode) 
10 Plastic seal 
 
Figure 1 – Test procedure using a double-nickel layer as an example 
3.2 
Test equipment and auxiliary equipment 
Test setup (see Figure 2) consisting of: 
─ 
DC power supply source, adjustable from 0 mA to 50 mA 
─ 
Electrolyte pump 
─ 
Detector 
─ 
Measuring cell 
─ 
Silver reference electrode 
─ 
Counter electrode (cathode) 
NOTE: The complete test setup is commercially available in the form of a complete device (e.g. 
Couloscope® CMS Step by Helmut Fischer GmbH & Co. KG, Sindelfingen, Germany). 
3.3 
Chemical agents 
─ 
Hydrochloric acid, approx. 18% 
─ 
Electrolyte consisting of: 300 g/l nickel chloride (NiCl2 x 6 aq), 50 g/l sodium chloride (NaCl) 
and 25 g/l boric acid (H3BO3) in de-ionized water. The pH-value shall be monitored; it shall be 
pH = 3 ± 0.1. If this is not the case, it shall be brought to the value by adding diluted 
hydrochloric acid or sodium lye. 
NOTE: Ready-to-use electrolyte is commercially available (e.g. Fischer Elektrolyt F22 by Helmut 
Fischer GmbH & Co. KG, Sindelfingen, Germany). 


Page 3 
PV 1065: 2005-07 
 
 
Legend 
1 
Electrolyte pump 
2 
Measuring cell 
3 
Working electrode (anode) 
4 
Specimen 
5 
Counter electrode (cathode) 
6 
Silver reference electrode 
7 
Detector 
 
Figure 2 – Determination of the layer thickness 
3.4 
Procedure 
3.4.1 Specimen preparation 
The specimens shall be plane and have a size of approx. (3 x 3) cm. Larger components shall be 
divided accordingly. 
The chrome layer is removed by one of the following methods: 
─ 
Chemical separation of the chrome layer in an approx. 18% hydrochloric acid bath, approx. 
5 min at room temperature. The potential differences shall be measured no sooner than 24 h 
after separation of the chrome layer, as there may be ambiguous differences between 
microporous nickel and bright nickel otherwise. 
─ 
Electrolytic separation of the chrome layer (e.g. separation during the coulometric layer 
thickness measurement acc. to DIN EN ISO 2177). In this case the potential differences may 
be measured immediately after the separation of the chrome layer. 
Subsequently, the specimens shall be thoroughly cleaned with de-ionized water and dried. 
3.4.2 Measurement 
Prior to each measurement series, the silver reference electrode shall be conditioned on non-
conductive material (for formation of silver chloride coating). This is to ensure that a current only 
occurs between the silver reference electrode and the cathode. The conditioning time shall be 30 s. 
In case of longer device downtimes, it may be necessary to repeat conditioning several times. 


Page 4 
PV 1065: 2005-07 
 
The system functional capability shall be checked prior to each measurement series by means of a 
known reference setup. At monthly intervals, a calibrated reference standard shall be used for the 
comparison measurement (e.g. calibration standard Kalibriernormal Step Ni/Cu by Helmut Fischer 
GmbH & Co. KG, Sindelfingen, Germany). 
Measuring process: 
─ 
Positioning of specimen under the measuring cell 
─ 
Grounding of specimen 
─ 
Connection of silver reference electrode with detector/evaluation unit 
─ 
Separation speed: 5 µm/min 
─ 
Max. separation voltage: 5 V 
─ 
Current density: 2.5925 mA/mm² 
The following amperages result from this when using the Fischer measuring cell: 
Ø 3.2 mm (blue seal): 20.85 mA 
Ø 2.2 mm (green seal): 9.852 mA 
Ø 1.5 mm (yellow seal): 4.589 mA 
─ 
Filling of cell with electrolyte 
─ 
Measurement start until complete separation of all nickel layers 
After every individual measurement the counter electrode (cathode) shall be cleaned from any films 
by means of a soft cloth. 
The electrolyte shall be replaced after every measurement. 
The separation area shall be evaluated after every measurement. The separation shall be 
complete; its diameter shall have the same dimensions as the seal. If this is not the case, the 
measurement shall be repeated or the seal shall be replaced. 
In order to conserve the silver chloride coating, the reference electrode shall be kept in a closed 
container after the measurements in the electrolyte have been finished. 
3.5 
Evaluation 
The measured values shall be represented in a potential/layer thickness diagram (example see 
Figure 3). The X axis represents the layer thicknesses, the Y axis the potential differences. 
Evaluation may be performed manually or automatically. 
3.5.1 Layer thicknesses 
The thickness of the individual layers shall be measured between the characteristic curve steps 
(example see Figure 3). 
3.5.2 Potential differences 
The potential differences shall be determined by subtracting the semi-bright nickel layer potential 
from the bright nickel layer potential and by subtracting the bright nickel layer potential from the 
porous nickel layer potential (example see Figure 4). 
If there is a drift in the characteristic curve, the potentials shall be determined by applying a 
tangent. 


Page 5 
PV 1065: 2005-07 
 
 
Legend 
1 Microporous nickel 
2 Bright nickel 
3 Semi-bright nickel 
1.6 µm 
9.1 µm 
8.5 µm 
 
Figure 3 – Determination of the layer thickness 
 
Legend 
1 Microporous nickel 
2 Bright nickel 
3 Semi-bright nickel 
4 40 mV difference 
5 135 mV difference 
6 340 mV absolute 
7 300 mV absolute 
8 435 mV absolute 
 
Figure 4 – Determination of the potential difference 


Page 6 
PV 1065: 2005-07 
 
 
Legend 
1 
Semi-bright nickel potential 
2 
Bright nickel potential 
3 
Bright nickel layer thickness (point of reading: upper value) 
4 
Semi-bright nickel layer thickness (point of reading: lower value) 
 
Figure 5 – Determination of layer thickness and potentials in case of a drift in the 
characteristic curve 
3.6 
Test report 
See Table 1. 
 
Table 1 – Example of a test report (refers to measurement in Figures 3 and 4) 
1 
Layer thickness of porous nickel in µm 
1.6 
2 
Potential step between porous nickel/bright nickel in mV 
40 
3 
Layer thickness of bright nickel in µm 
9.1 
4 
Potential step between bright nickel/semi-bright nickel in mV 135 
5 
Layer thickness of semi-bright nickel in µm 
8.5 
4 
Referenced standards* 
DIN EN ISO 2177 
Metallic Coatings; Measurement of Coating Thickness; Coulometric Method 
by Anodic Dissolution 
ASTM B 764 
Standard Test Method for Simultaneous Thickness and Electrode Potential 
Determination of Individual Layers in Multilayer Nickel Deposit (STEP Test) 
                                                
* In this section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
