# PV12-30.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 58 1 
April 2004 
Adhesives 
Compatibility with Oils and Dry-Film Lubricants 
(Hot Melt) 
PV 
12.30 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
adhesive, oil, hot melt, dry-film lubricant, compatibility, slushing oil, prelube, 
drawing oil, sheet bar washing oil, corrosion protection 
 
Page 1 to 5 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
PM-V 
Frau Dr. Bondartschuk 
Tel: -34967 
Richter 
I/PG-61 Woll 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
1 
Scope 
This Test Specification describes a procedure for evaluating the compatibility of body-in-white 
adhesives with respect to slushing oil (prelube), sheet bar washing oil, drawing lubricant and hot 
melt (dry-film lubricant) on steel or aluminum sheets. 
2 
Designation 
 Compatibility with respect to oils and hot melt according to Test Specification PV 12.30. 
3 
Test method 
3.1 
Test equipment and auxiliary equipment 
─ 
Zinc-coated steel sheets: 
hot dipped zinc-coated (Z), at least Ofl-c330 according to Volkswagen standard VW 137 50, 
and electrolytically zinc-coated, pre-phosphated (ZE+PH), at least Ofl-c310 according to 
VW 137 50, dimensions 290 mm x 110 mm, each with a hole in the center of the edge of the 
narrow side (Ø 10 mm) 
─ 
Pickle passivated aluminum sheets (e.g., according to Technical Supply Specification TL 088, 
TL 089, TL 091 or TL 094), if hot melt is to be tested on aluminum, for dimensions see above 
─ 
Cartridge gun and nozzle 
─ 
Analytical balance (scale accuracy 0.001 g) 
─ 
Oil quantity measuring device (optional, from the Fuchs company) 
─ 
Petroleum or cleaning ether (e.g.: material number .29 0008) 
─ 
Lint-free cloths 
─ 
Laboratory fume extractor 
─ 
Binding wire 
─ 
Mechanical circulation oven 
─ 
Two steel hooks with grips (draw hooks) 
─ 
Spacer (metal wire: ∅ 0.2 mm to 0.3 mm, steel balls: ∅ 2 mm to 3 mm) 
 
The following standard production adhesives shall be used to test new oils: 
─ 
AKD 464 000  
for sulfur cross-linking body-in-white seals (Rbv) 
─ 
AMV 154 W24  for sulfur cross-linking adhesives (Un) 
─ 
AMV 167 N60 
for epoxy resin adhesives that can be pumped when cold (Bn) 
─ 
AMV 167 W60  for epoxy resin adhesives that must be warm when applied (Str) 
─ 
AMV 160 300   
for EP/PUR adhesives that must be warm when applied (Un) 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page  2 
PV 12.30: 2004-04 
 
The following oils/hot melt shall be used to test new adhesives: 
─ 
Slushing oil: 
Anticorit RP 4107 S, Fuchs, 
Anticorit PL 3802-39 S, Fuchs, 
Multidraw PL 61, Zeller & Gmelin 
─ 
Sheet bar washing oil: 
Anticorit PL 39 LV 15, Fuchs, 
AP 218, Pfinder 
─ 
Drawing oil: 
Renoform MCO 3802 SN, Fuchs, 
KTL N 16, Zeller & Gmelin, 
AP 167/22, Pfinder 
─ 
Hot melt: 
Drylube E1, Zeller & Gmelin, 
PL 3802-39 SX, Fuchs, 
AP 171, Pfinder 
Other adhesives/oils/hot melt substances can be used upon consultation with the relevant 
responsible organizational unit of VOLKSWAGEN AG (process engineering department) . 
3.2 
Procedure 
3.2.1 
Cleaning the test panels 
Adhering oil, dirt, etc., is removed using a dry cloth. Next a lint-free cloth which has been wetted 
with petroleum ether is used to clean the panels. This process is repeated at least twice (using 
a clean cloth). Preferably both sides of the test panels are cleaned. If only the test surface is 
cleaned, then this must be marked in a manner which cannot be confused (e.g., by means of a 
dimple). The test panels can also be cleaned in an ultrasound bath which is filled with petroleum 
ether. 
3.2.2 
Oiling 
3.2.2.1 Prelubes, drawing oils 
─ 
Clean the panel according to Section 3.2.1 and then dry it (flash-off time ≥ 5 min, 
no condensate may remain on the panels). 
─ 
Weigh the panel using an analytical balance. 
─ 
Drip oil onto the panel and spread it using a clean, lint-free cloth such that an even oil film is 
created. 
─ 
Weigh the oiled panel using an analytical balance (alternatively, the oil quantity can be 
determined using an oil quantity measuring device). 
─ 
Repeat the oil application until a degree of oiling of 3.0 ± 0.2 g/m² is achieved. The degree of 
oiling is noted in the test report. 
3.2.2.2 Hot melt 
Preferably panels prepared by the hot melt manufacturer shall be used. 
Otherwise, proceed as follows: 
─ 
Weigh the panel using an analytical balance. 
─ 
Warm the panel on a hotplate (60 to 70 °C); apply hot melt evenly after melting – similar to oil 
application. 


Page 3 
PV 12.30: 2004-04 
 
─ 
Weigh the coated panel using an analytical balance (alternatively, the hot melt quantity can be 
determined using an oil quantity measuring device). 
─ 
Apply the hot melt repeatedly until a degree of coating of 1.7 ± 0.2 g/m² is achieved. 
The degree of oiling is noted in the test report. 
3.2.3 
Compatibility test 
3.2.3.1 Adhesive application 
With the adhesive, one specimen comprising a hot-dip zinc-coated steel panel and one specimen 
comprising an electrolytically zinc-coated steel panel are made. If dry-film lubricant is to be 
evaluated on aluminum, two panels of aluminum sheetmetal (standard production) are used to this 
end. 
For new media to be tested (prelubes, drawing auxiliary equipment, adhesives etc.) a test 
specimen is also tested with slushing oil RP 4107 S as a reference. 
─ 
On a panel two beads of adhesive measuring 200 mm in length are applied at points 30 mm 
away from the edge of the panel. One bead should be L-shaped (see Figure 1). Bead 
diameter, see Table 1. 
Table 1  
Adhesive type 
Bead diameter (mm) 
Press to a thickness of 
(mm) 
Backing adhesive (Un1) 
5 to 8 
3 to 5 
Edge-formed seam adhesive (BN2 ) 
2 to 3 
0.25 to 0.4 
Structural design adhesive (Str3) 
2 to 3 
0.25 to 0.4 
Body-in-white sealing mass (Rbv4) 
6 to 8 
no specification, mass is 
spread in a wedge shape
 
 
Figure 1 
 
                                                
1 From German Unterfütterungsklebstoff 
2 From German Bördelnahtklebstoff 
3 From German Struktureller Konstruktionsklebstoff 
4 From German Rohbauversiegelungsmasse 
10 mm hole 
Beads of adhesive 


Page  4 
PV 12.30: 2004-04 
 
─ 
The panel with the layer of adhesive shall be permanently marked (e.g., by means of steel 
stamping numbers), so that after the cathodic dip-coating, the application side and the surface-
pretreatment can be identified. 


Page 5 
PV 12.30: 2004-04 
 
─ 
Immediately after the application of the adhesive, a second panel is placed on top and both 
panels with spacers are pressed together to the thickness indicated in Table 1 (third column). 
Next the two panels are bound together with binding wire. For structural adhesives, clips (10 
pieces), which press the two panels onto one another, are preferred. 
3.2.3.2 Drying 
At least 1 h after joining the test panels, the test specimens are run through the standard 
production process (pre-treatment and cathodic dip-coating) or are burned-in in the laboratory 
mechanical circulation oven. Burn-in temperature in the laboratory: 20 min at 170 °C (object 
temperature) or standard production conditions. 
After pretreatment/cathodic dip-coating (or mechanical circulation oven) and cooling of the test 
specimen, the test specimen is aged for 24 h at room temperature (22 °C, 50% relative humidity). 
The binding wire is loosened on one side. The two steel sheets are bent outwards over an edge 
into a right angle (90°), to a length of 40 to 50 mm. The bend may not run through the bonding 
area. 
Draw hooks are fed through the holes. One hook is fixed. Using the other hook, the test specimen 
is pulled apart (peeling action). 
3.2.4 
Evaluation 
The failure pattern of the peeled bond is evaluated according to DIN EN ISO 10365. There is a 
reference to the compatibility between the adhesive and the oil. 
In the event of a cohesive fracture or a cohesive fracture that is close to the substrate, compatibility 
is deemed to exist. 
Further tests shall be used to aid decision making when releasing newly developed adhesives and 
oils (for adhesives, tensile shear tests for example according to PV 12.05, PV 12.07 or PV 12.08 
are conducted; for oils, tests using standard production adhesives are conducted according to 
Section 3.1). 
Where the failure pattern is adhesive, there is no compatibility and the adhesive or oil may not be 
released for the process. 
3.2.5 
Test report 
The test report contains the following details: 
─ 
medium/reference, 
─ 
degree of oiling (g/m²), 
─ 
spacer (diameter), 
─ 
adhesive, 
─ 
evaluation of the failure pattern according to DIN EN ISO 10365, 
─ 
photos of the failure pattern (where possible). 
4 
Referenced standards*) 
DIN EN ISO 10365 
Adhesives; Designation of Main Failure Patterns 
                                                
*) In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
 
