# PV1210.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 21 1 
September 2004 
Body and Add-on Parts 
Corrosion Test 
PV 
1210 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
corrosion, body, add-on part 
 
Page   
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32/2 
Frau Dr. Hasse 
Tel: -42106 
Laudien 
Dr. Eisenberg 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Test Specification PV 1210, 2001-05: 
 
Referenced standards updated 
Previous issues 
1981-08; 2001-05 
1 
Scope 
This Test Specification is used for corrosion testing in sample and standard-production tests 
conducted on completely painted bodies, body panels, assemblies and components with differing 
anti-corrosion coatings. 
It serves to monitor and evaluate corrosion behavior or corrosion protection measures of these 
parts when exposed to static load. 
2 
Designation 
Corrosion resistance according to PV 1210 
3 
Test method 
3.1 
Principle 
The test is an alternating cycle consisting of a combination of various climatic and/or corrosion 
loads.  
A test cycle consists of 
 
4 h salt spray fog test according to DIN 50021-SS, 
 
4 h aging in the DIN 50014–23/50-2 standard climate (including cooling-off phase), 
 
16 hours humid aging at elevated temperature, climate according to DIN 50017- KK 
(40 ± 3) °C; 100% humidity. 
After 5 cycles, a 2-day rest phase takes place in the DIN 50014–23/50-2 standard climate. 
Using this test method, corrosion behavior under static load resulting from salt, humidity and 
temperature is evaluated. 
Under these defined corrosion conditions, different anti-corrosion coatings can be comparatively 
assessed. 
A correlation with the corrosion mechanism in actual driving operation is not necessarily possible, 
as the types of vehicle damage and corrosion curves are complex and are not completely covered 
and reflected by the changing corrosion load. 
A short interruption of the test for inspection purposes and/or the removal of test specimens is 
permitted. Interrupting the test by changing the test program is not permitted. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
PV 1210: 2004-09 
 
3.2 
Test fixtures 
Assemblies, components and test panels can also be tested in suitable single or alternate devices. 
The devices must comply with the specifications in DIN 50014, DIN 50017 and DIN 50021. 
3.3 
Body test 
Testing is performed according to Section 3.1. Examples are given in Section 3.6. 
In order to carry out a specific evaluation of cavities, the body can be turned. 
Before being initially brought into the salt spray test chamber, the body, mounted on the pivoting 
frame, is preconditioned in the DIN 50014–23/50-2 standard climate, and is then moved into the 
test chamber kept at a constant temperature. 
3.3.1 
Salt spray phase 
During the test sequence with rotation, before each salt spray cycle, the body is turned about its 
lengthwise axis so that it is positioned as in the following sequence: 0°, 45°, 135°, 225° and 315°. 
3.3.2 
Standard climate aging / humid aging at elevated temperature 
During the cooling-off phase and during humid aging at elevated temperature, the body is 
positioned horizontally. 
3.3.3 
Repeating the test cycles 
After humid aging at elevated temperature is completed according to Section 3.1, the body is 
immediately placed in the salt spray test chamber and turned 90° in a clockwise direction to 45°, 
135°, 225° or 315°, according to the respective test cycle. 
3.3.4 
Weekend aging 
The rest phase entails aging in the DIN 50014–23/50-2 standard climate, with the body in 
a horizontal position and placed either in a suitable garage/hall or in the test chamber. 
3.4 
Component test 
The required minimum for complete testing is 5 parts. 
The components or their sections are tested in accordance with DIN EN ISO 7253 (see Section 4). 
Cavities must be exposed to the salt spray fog by cutting/opening of parts. If necessary, 
unprotected trim edges must be covered before testing. 
3.5 
Evaluation 
After 15, 30, 60 and 90 cycles, the specimens are evaluated with regard to 
 
Type of corrosion (coating and/or base metal corrosion), 
 
Form of corrosion (surface or edge corrosion), 
 
Time of appearance and development of corrosion, 
as well as with regard to additional changes in the anti-corrosion coating such as loss of adhesion 
or blistering. 
Organic coatings can be evaluated according to DIN EN ISO 4628-1, Table 3. 


Page 3 
PV 1210: 2004-09 
 
Signs of rust creep on painted sheets can be examined using a non-destructive thermographic 
method for quantitative evaluation of the development and spread of defects. 
The test is concluded when corrosion grade Ri5 according to DIN EN ISO 4628-3 or corrosion 
perforations occur. 
The following must be stated in the test report: 
 
Parts examined : 
 
e.g., painted sheets 
 
Corrosion protection measures:  
e.g., paint finish (coating thickness: 96 µm, measured  
 
in the sheet center) 
 
Test: 
 
Start/end 
 
Evaluation: 
 
Start of base metal corrosion: 
 
e.g., after 15 cycles: surface corrosion Ri 2 
 
Blistering: 
 
e.g., after 18 cycles: blistering grade 2 (S4) 
 
Adhesion loss: 
 
e.g., D = 3 mm 
 
End of test. 
 
e.g., after 30 cycles 
 
Notes / remarks 
3.6 
Examples for week cycle 
3.6.1 
Example 1 
In manufacturing operations from 5:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m., for one salt spray test chamber and 
four chambers for humid aging at elevated temperature (Table 1), change-over times 
max. 2 × 15 minutes per test cycle, throughput eight passenger car bodies. 
Table 1 
Bodies 
Salt spray fog test 
Cooling-off phase 
Humid aging at 
elevated temperature
Weekend aging 
A/B 
6:00 a.m.- 
10:00 a.m., Mo-Fr 
10:15 a.m.- 
2:15 p.m., Mo-Fr 
2:30 p.m.- 
5:45 a.m., Mo-Sa 
6:00 a.m.- 
5:45 a.m., Sa-Mo 
C/D 
10:00 a.m.- 
2:00 p.m., Mo-Fr 
2:15 p.m.- 
6:15 p.m., Mo-Fr 
6:30 p.m.- 
9:45 a.m., Mo-Sa 
10:00 a.m.- 
9:45 a.m., Sa-Mo 
E/F 
2:00 p.m.- 
6:00 p.m., Mo-Fr 
6:15 p.m.- 
10:15 p.m., Mo-Fr 
10:30 p.m.- 
1:45 p.m., Mo-Sa 
2:00 p.m.- 
1:45 p.m., Sa-Mo 
G/H 
6:00 p.m.- 
10:00 p.m., Mo-Fr 
10:15 p.m.- 
2:15 a.m., Mo-Fr 
2:30 a.m.- 
5:45 p.m., Mo-Sa 
6:00 p.m.- 
5:45 p.m., Sa-Mo 
 


Page 4 
PV 1210: 2004-09 
 
3.6.2 
Example 2 
In normal shift, for one salt spray test chamber and two chambers for humid aging at elevated 
temperature, throughput: four passenger-car bodies (Table 2) 
Table 2 
Bodies 
Salt spray fog test 
Cooling-off phase 
Humid aging at 
elevated temperature
Weekend aging 
A/B 
8:00 a.m.- 
12:00 p.m., Mo-Fr 
12:15 p.m.- 
4:15 p.m., Mo-Fr 
4:30 p.m.- 
7:45 a.m., Mo-Sa 
8:00 a.m.- 
7:45 a.m., Sa-Mo 
C/D 
12:30 p.m.- 
4:30 p.m., Mo-Fr 
4:30 p.m.- 
8:30 p.m., Mo-Fr 
8:30 p.m.- 
11:45 a.m., Mo-Sa 
12:00 p.m.- 
11:45 a.m., Sa-Mo 
 
4 
Note on testing 
4.1 
Salt spray fog test 
The coated bodies, body panels, components and assemblies must be scribed through to the 
metallic base material. 
5 
Referenced standards*) 
DIN 50014 
Climates and Their Technical Application, Standard Climates 
DIN 50017 
Atmospheres and their Technical Application; Condensation Water Test 
Atmospheres 
DIN 50021 
Spray Tests with Different Sodium Chloride Solutions 
DIN EN ISO 4628-1 
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings – 
Designation of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform 
Changes in Appearance; Part 1: General Introduction and Designation 
System 
DIN EN ISO 4628-3 
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings – 
Designation of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform 
Changes in Appearance; Part 3: Assessment of Degree of Rusting 
DIN EN ISO 7253 
Paints and Varnishes – Determination of Resistance to Neutral Salt 
Spray (Fog) 
                                                
*) In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
