# PV1201.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 22 3
June 1996
Securing and Add-On Parts for
Unit Housings made from Magnesium Alloys
Test of effect causing galvanic corrosion
PV
1201
Konzernnorm
Continued on pages 2 to 6
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
4–PKQ–2
Dr. Wenners
Wiesner
Tel: +49-5361-929064
Sobanski
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung einer Normenabteilung des Volkswagen Konzerns nicht gestattet.
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung.
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
VOLKSWAGEN AG
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 12.00
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to the March 1980 issue:
-  
Completely revised
Previous issues
First issue:   11.76
Last change:   03.80
This test specification is used in sample and series monitoring tests.
1 
General
1.1 
Aim
The materials and corrosion-inhibiting coatings used in conjunction with magnesium alloys may not
trigger any technically relevant galvanic corrosion.
It is possible to check whether this requirement is being fulfilled, by aging in sodium chloride
solution in contact with magnesium.
1.2 
Note
Compliance with the relevant safety regulations for handling magnesium is absolutely
essential. Danger of explosion! Danger of fire!
2 
Test equipment, test solution
2.1 
Chemicals
Sodium chloride, crystalline, ultrapure
2.2 
Test solution
NaCl solution, 1% by volume in distilled water
2.3 
Contact material, magnesium alloys
Ingot sections of the relevant released alloys
Mg test section:
Length 70 mm, width 35 mm, thickness 5 mm (draft 1). Machined on all sides. Contact surface to
the specimen part, ground with 220 grain.
The test sections may be re-used (after grinding).
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2
PV 1201: 1996-06
2.4 
Plastic corresponding elements
Plastic corresponding elements (draft 2) are used to fasten the specimen parts to the Mg test
sections (section 2.3).
3 
Preparation of specimen
3.1 
Screws with washer assemblies, hexagon head screws and hexagon socket screws,
multipoint socket screws, cheese head screws and oval-head screws and studs
with shoulders
Fasten to the Mg test section and plastic corresponding element according to draft 3. Where the
thread is short, fasten directly to the Mg test plate (bores here with thread).
3.2 
Studs without shoulders
Fasten to the Mg test section (bores here with thread) according to draft 4. Protrusion of the screws
shall be the same on both sides.
3.3 
Washers
Fasten to Mg test section and plastic corresponding element according to draft 3. Suitable plastic
screws are used to this end.
3.4 
Nuts
Fasten to Mg test section and plastic corresponding element according to draft 3. Plastic threaded
pins screwed into the plastic corresponding element are used for fastening.
3.5 
Special parts, such as sheets, levers etc.
Fasten or clamp directly onto the Mg test section. Securing aids shall only be manufactured in
plastic.
In the case of large specimen parts, the effective support and/or cathode surfaces shall be adapted
to the Mg test sections such that in these cases, partial sections of the specimens shall be used.
Unprotected cut edges shall be covered with a galvanic paint. The assembly must be such that the
edges are at least 15 mm outside the Mg contact surface. Under certain circumstances, the parts
may also be placed in the test solution such that the cut edges are not immersed.
4 
Aging, cleaning
The specimen parts prepared according to section 3 are aged in the test solution according to
section 2.2 (draft 5).
optionally:
Test duration
:
100 h
24 h
Test temperature
:
Room temperature
(23 ± 5)° C
according to DIN 50 014
(43 ± 2)° C
Mechanical circulation oven
Test container
:
Tall beaker, content 1 l, covered with watch glass
Position of the specimens
:
Upright
Test fluid
:
Fluid level 3 cm above the top edge of the specimen part
After aging is completed the specimen part is cleaned under running water with a nylon brush, for
stubborn corrosion residue a brass brush may also be used, and then evaluated.


Page 3
PV 1201: 1996-06
5 
Evaluation
-  
Major Mg removal (cratering, significant pitting) in direct proximity to the specimen part is not
permitted (figures 1 and 2).
-  
Slight surface corrosion (minor pitting) over the entire surface of the Mg test section is normal
when Mg is aged in NaCI solution and is therefore permitted.
6 
Figures and drafts
Figure 1
Magnesium plates
Aging test 100 h at RT
0
:
Blank tests with plastic screws
1 to 5
:
Various stages of galvanic corrosion formation
0 to 2: permissible
3 to 5: not permissible
Figure 2
as for figure 1, except aging test is for 24 h at 45° C


Page 4
PV 1201: 1996-06
Draft 1 – Mg test section
Diameter of the bores coordinated with
specimen parts
Contact surface to the specimen part
ground with 220 grain.
Draft 2 –
Plastic corresponding element
Material: PA, PE, PVC
Thread coordinated with specimen part


Page 5
PV 1201: 1996-06
Draft 3 –
Specimen part fastened to Mg test section and
plastic corresponding element
Draft 4
A Stud bolts
S Mg test section


Page 6
PV 1201: 1996-06
Draft 5
A Fluid level
S Specimen parts
D Beaker
S Mg test section
G Plastic corresponding element
7 
Referenced standards
DIN 50 014
