# PV1323.pdf

Non-Metallic Materials
UV Radiation on Thermoplastic Material, Outside, in Sun Test
Previous issues
PV 1323: 1995-09
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to PV 1323: 1995-09:
–
Referenced documents updated
Scope
This Test Specification (PV) relates to the testing of thermoplastic materials used on vehicle exteriors,
with respect to UV resistance, through artificial exposure. Visual evaluation as well as colorimetry are
used to assess the resulting graying.
Without exception, the test relates to the exposure of specimens with unfiltered, short-wave Xenon
arc light (270 nm and above) and constant flooding in the test device.
This Test Specification is used in sample and standard production monitoring tests.
Description
Sun test acc. to PV 1323
Requirements
Requirements and deviations from the test methods according to Volkswagen standard, Technical
Supply Specification (TL), and/or drawing or release.
1  
2  
3  
Group Standard
PV 1323
Issue 2008-06
Class. No.:
55126
Descriptors:
non-metallic materials, UV radiation, thermoplastic materials, sun test, UV resistance, weathering tests,
exposure tests, artificial exposure
Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
Numerical notation acc. to ISO practice.
Page 1 of 4
Technical responsibility
Standards department
GQL-LP/3
Lutz Porzelt
Tel.: +49-5361-9-75066
GQL-LP
Dr. Roger Hillert
EKTC/4 Ute Hager-Süß
EKTC
Tel.: +49-5361-9-49035
Manfred Terlinden
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform "www.vwgroupsupply.com".
© VOLKSWAGEN AG
VWNORM-2007-10e
QUELLE: NOLIS


Test
Test devices and exposure conditions
See Table 1.
Table 1
Device
Suntest/Suntest CPS
Radiator
Xenon radiator
Burner current/intensity of irradiation
11,4 A/100 W/m2
Filter
Uncoated quartz glass
Max. UV (270 nm)
Water flooding
Continuous flooding with 4 to 6 mm water layer
above the specimen.
A smooth water surface must be largely ensured
(no test compartment ventilation and no vibra‐
tions).
All of the deionized water is renewed before each
test, after the system is cleaned.
Water flow rate
45 ± 5 l/h
Water temperature
40 ± 1 °C
Test starts with preheated water
Load period
240 h/480 h
1 cycle and 2 cycles respectively
Specimens and specimen carriers
Specimen preparation
The specimens are taken from a representative portion of the finished part to be tested or from spec‐
imen sheets manufactured under standard production conditions. They must be as flat as possible.
Make sure that the surface of the specimen is raised no more than 5 mm above the specimen carrier
surface. The specimen must be fastened in the specimen carrier accordingly.
Specimen size
The sample size for the Suntest and Suntest CPS must preferably be 60 x 20 mm. However, the
selected specimen size must be sufficiently large enough to ensure that a proper evaluation can be
performed with the designated procedures and devices.
Specimen carriers
Preferably, the specimen carriers must be metal (non-corroding) to keep the specimens from floating.
4  
4.1  
4.2  
4.2.1  
4.2.1.1  
4.2.2  
Page 2
PV 1323: 2008-06


Conducting the weathering test
Cleaning of the test compartment and the quartz glass slide
To maintain the proper condition of the devices, a regular visual inspection and cleaning of the test
compartment and the quartz glass slide once a week is required. In general, normal cleaning with
clear water is sufficient.
Replacing the radiator
The radiator is replaced on the devices (Suntest and Suntest CPS) every 1 500 hours. The operating
period of the radiator in the uncontrolled sun test is no more than 1 500 h. In addition, make sure that
the radiator power is set to 11,4 A when the device is serviced. In the controlled device, the radiator
must be used for longer periods, to the extent it is still controllable (intensity of irradiation 100 W/
m2).
Water for continuous flooding
To avoid deposits on the specimens, which can complicate the evaluation, distilled or deionized,
silicate-free water with a conductance of 0,2 µS must be used. Reverse osmosis water preparation
systems with a downstream silicate stage have proven to be suitable for this. In order to achieve
uniform exposure, the water surface must be smooth and still. The water temperature must be mea‐
sured in the center of the testing plane.
Evaluating the specimens
Evaluation principles
The evaluation of the exposed specimens with respect to changes in brightness (dL) as compared
to a covered surface and/or as compared to an unloaded specimen as a reference is conducted
visually and/or using measuring equipment.
The requirements are listed in the Technical Supply Specifications, the drawings, and/or the releases.
Visual evaluation
The exposed specimens are evaluated with the assistance of a gray scale to evaluate the "Changes
in Brightness (DIN EN 20105-A02)" with the application of suitable illumination "Standard Light
(DIN EN ISO 105-A01)" or diffuse northern light by two experienced people with normal eyesight.
Changes for which no measured value is required, are described according to DIN EN ISO 4628-1.
Colorimetric evaluation
In order to avoid relatively large deviations among the individual evaluators and among repeat eval‐
uations, a colormetric evaluation according to Cielab (DIN 6174) must be done (with the exclusion of
gloss), if possible, using a spectrophotometer according to a procedure indicated in DIN 53236. If
required, the conversion to gray-scale levels is done according to DIN EN 20105-A02. The mea‐
surement conditions, device type, etc. must be agreed upon or at least indicated.
For homogenous surfaces, at least three measurements must be averaged. For structured speci‐
mens, the number of measurements to be averaged must be increased accordingly. As a rule, the
maximum possible measuring surface must be selected for the color measuring device.
4.3  
4.3.1  
4.3.2  
4.3.3  
4.4  
4.4.1  
4.4.1.1  
4.4.1.2  
Page 3
PV 1323: 2008-06


Specification of the test results
If required in the corresponding TL, the following information must be specified in the test report with
reference to this standard:
1.
Test equipment
2.
Total test duration
3.
Color change: Gray-scale level/dL
4.
Any agreed upon conditions that deviate from this PV
Referenced documents
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary for application.
In this Section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
DIN 53236
Testing of colouring materials; conditions of measurement and evaluation
for the determination of colour differences for paint coatings, similar coat‐
ings and plastics
DIN 6174
Colorimetric evaluation of colour coordinates and colour differences ac‐
cording to the approximately uniform CIELAB colour space
DIN EN 20105-A02
Textiles - Tests for colour fastness - Part A02: Grey scale for assessing
change in colour (ISO 105-A02:1993); German version EN 20105-
A02:1994
DIN EN ISO 105-A01
Textiles - Tests for colour fastness - Part A01: General principles of testing
(ISO 105-A01:1994); German version EN ISO 105-A01:1995
DIN EN ISO 4628-1
Paints and varnishes - Evaluation of degradation of coatings - Designation
of quantity and size of defects, and of intensity of uniform changes in ap‐
pearance - Part 1: General introduction and designation system (ISO
4628-1:2003); German version EN I...
5  
6  
Page 4
PV 1323: 2008-06
