# PV1454.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 22 5 
November 1997 
Transmission Oil 
Testing the Temperature Change in the Deep-Groove 
Thrust Ball Bearing Temperature Adapter 
PV 
1454 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
 
 
Continued on pages 2 to 4 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733) 
K-GQLB 
Engelen 
Frau Hager-Süß Tel: +49-5361-949035 Sobanski 
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung der Volkswagen AG, EZTN, nicht gestattet. 
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung. 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of the Volkswagen Group, EZTN, Standard Department. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Form FE 41 - 10.99 
1 
Scope 
The test method is used to determine the temperature change of transmission oils with the help of 
a deep-groove thrust ball bearing temperature adapter. 
The method is applicable for all lubricating oils in units with high churning loss, particularly for 
transmission oils, sample and series monitoring tests. 
This test with the Shell four-ball tester as per DIN 51 350 Part 1 serves to determine temperature 
change of the products specified above characterized by the steady-state temperature that results 
in the deep-groove thrust ball bearing temperature adapter. It allows deductions on the tempera-
ture level in transmissions and thus gives information on the expected power loss in the transmis-
sion. 
2 
Definitions 
The steady-state temperature is referred to 30° C and can be calculated from the following equa-
tion: 
Tsteady-state = 30° C – Tambient + Toil pan 
Note: A smaller value indicates a low churning loss and lower power loss. 
3 
Test Procedure 
3.1 
Brief Description of the Procedure 
The transmission oil is tested in a deep-groove thrust ball bearing driven by the Shell four-ball 
tester as per DIN 51 350 Part 1. The deep-groove thrust ball bearing runs in 40 ml of the transmis-
sion oil to be tested (immersion lubrication method) at a constant speed of 4,000 rpm, constant 
load of 5,000 N over 120 min in a housing made of a material with low thermal conductivity. 
The steady state temperature that results in the oil pan is evaluated, based on an ambient tem-
perature of 30° C. 
3.2 
Designation 
The method for determining the steady state temperature of lubricating oils, particularly transmis-
sion oils, in the Shell four-ball tester in the deep-groove thrust ball bearing (ARKL) is called: 
PV 1454 – ARKL 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case 
of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS (Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen!/Check standard for current issue prior to usage)
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
PV 1454: 1997-11 
 
3.3 
Equipment 
3.3.1 
Shell Four-Ball Tester per DIN 51 350-1 
3.3.2 
Test Bearing 
Deep-groove thrust ball bearing 51 208 
3.3.3 
Deep-Groove Thrust Ball Bearing Temperature Adapters (see Fig. 1). 
3.3.4 
Temperature Measuring System 
Temperature measuring system with a measuring accuracy of ±0.1° C in the range from 0 to 
+200° C. 
 
 
Fig. 1:  
Schematic representation of the deep-groove thrust ball bearing temperature 
  
 
adapter for determining the steady state temperature of lubricating oils, in 
  
 
particular transmission oils, in the Shell four-ball tester. 
3.4 
Sampling 
Sampling according to DIN 51 750, Parts 1 and 2. 
1. 
Lubricating oil to be tested 
2. 
Cheese head screw 
3. 
O-ring 
4. 
Filler opening 
5. 
Plug 
6. 
Seal 
7. 
Lock ring 
8. 
Cheese head screw 
9. 
Spindle insert 
10. Insert 
11. Bracket 
12. ARKL/upper housing plate 
13. ARKL/cage 
14. ARKL/lower housing plate 
15. Tensioning nut 
16. Thermocouple 
17. Base body 
18. Probe 
19. Countersunk head screw 
20. Lower part 
21. Tip 


Page 3 
PV 1454: 1997-11 
 
3.5 
Test Preparation (see Fig. 1) 
3.5.1 
Preparing the Deep-Groove Thrust Ball Bearing 
Prior to testing, the deep-groove thrust ball bearing temperature adapter and the deep-groove 
thrust ball bearing shall be cleaned with a suitable solvent, e.g., special boiling point spirit as per 
DIN 51 631-2-A, and subsequently dried. 
3.5.2 
Assembly and installation of the deep-groove thrust ball bearing temperature 
adapter 
3.5.2.1 In the cleaned base body (Item 17), the lower housing plate (Item 14) with the cage 
(Item 13) and the bracket (Item 11) are inserted with the upper housing plate (Item 
12) of the deep-groove thrust ball bearing and hand-screwed with the tensioning 
nut (Item 15). 
3.5.2.2 The deep-groove thrust ball bearing temperature adapter prepared in this manner is 
filled with (40 ± 0.2) ml of the lubricating oil to be tested (item 1) through the filler 
opening (item 4) and closed with the plug (item 5). 
3.5.2.3 The deep-groove thrust ball bearing temperature adapter prepared in this manner is 
placed in the Shell four-ball tester using the spindle insert (Item 9) based on DIN 51 
350 Part 1; the load of 5,000 N is applied. 
3.5.2.4 The thermocouple must be attached and its function tested. 
3.5.3 
Test Conditions 
Motor speed  
 
(4,000 ± 20) rpm
 
amount of lubricating oil 
(40.0 ± 0.2) ml 
Load  
 
 
(5,000 ± 5 N 
Test duration  
 
(120 ± 1) min 


Page 4 
PV 1454: 1997-11 
 
3.6 
Test Procedure 
3.6.1 
The motor is started after the function test according to Section 3.5.2.4. 
3.6.2 
The test is ended as soon as the specified test duration is reached. 
3.6.3 
The temperature change in the oil pan of the deep-groove thrust ball bearing tem-
perature adapter is calculated per Section 2, plotted over the test duration and the 
resulting steady state temperature read. 
3.6.4 
The test must be performed a total of three times. The steady-state temperatures 
obtained in this manner are averaged and any freak values eliminated. 
3.7 
Test Result Format 
A reference run must be carried out for each test oil. 
Reference oil: "FVA reference oil No. 2 with 4% Anglamol 99". 
The steady-state temperatures determined according to Section 3.6.3 must be recorded in a test 
report with reference to this test specification. The results must be rounded to one decimal place. 
3.8 
Test Accuracy (per EN ISO 4259) 
The following characteristics are used to evaluate the reliability of results: 
3.8.1 
Repeatability 
(one observer, one device) 
If an observer determines two results under repeat conditions, the two results are regarded as ac-
ceptable and complying with standards if they differ by no more than 0.3° C. 
3.8.2 
Comparability 
(different observers, different devices) 
One result each is determined under comparable conditions in two different laboratories: Both  
results are regarded as acceptable and complying with standards if they differ by no more than  
X.X° C *) from one another other. 
*) The comparability is still being determined. 
4 
Referenced Standards 
DIN 51 350-1 
Testing of Lubricants; Testing in the Shell Four-Ball Tester, General Working 
Basics 
DIN 51 750-1 
Testing Mineral Oils; Sampling, General 
DIN 51 750-2 
Testing Mineral Oils; Sampling, Fluids 
DIN EN ISO 4259 
Mineral Oil Products; Determining and Using the Values for Test Procedure 
Accuracy 
