# PV1425.pdf

 
Group Standard 
PV 1425
2008-03
Class. No.: 
57225 
Descriptors:  
lubricating oil, corrosion, oil 
 
Check standard for current issue prior to usage.  
Page 1 of 4 
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature. 
Technical Responsibility 
Standards 
GQL-LB/2 
Bayram Aybasti 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-40570
GQL-LB 
Dr. Jörg Beyersdorf 
EKTC/4 Ute Hager-Süß 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-49035 
EKTC 
Manfred Terlinden 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior permission of a Standards department within the Volkswagen 
Group. Contract partners shall obtain the standard only through the B2B supplier platform www.vwgroupsupply.com. 
© VOLKSWAGEN AG 
 
vwnorm-2007-07 
 
 
 
Lubricating Oil 
Corrosivity Testing 
 
Previous issues 
PV 1425:1976-03, 1995-02, 1998-03, 2004-01, 2007-05 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Test Specification PV 1425, 2007-05: 
─ 
Sample preparation and test procedure updated 
─ 
Evaluation - formula added 
─ 
Referenced documents updated 
1 
Scope 
The test method is used to determine the corrosivity of lubricating oils in the presence of water with 
respect to steel and copper. This Test Specification applies to sample and standard production 
monitoring tests. 
2 
Description 
Corrosivity according to PV 1425 
3 
Requirements 
For associated requirements, see Technical Supply Specification (TL) of the respective lubricating 
oil. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
PV 1425: 2008-03 
 
4 
Test 
4.1 
Brief description 
A strip of electrolytic copper and ¼ inner ring of a deep-groove ball bearing are exposed to an 
emulsion of 98 ml lubricating oil and 2 ml distilled water at approx. 100 °C for 48 h. 
4.2 
Test equipment 
4.2.1 
Equipment 
─ 
Oven 
Controllable from room temperature to 120 °C;  
constancy of temperature ± 1 °C 
─ 
Laboratory stirrer 
Speed adjustable up to 2200 rpm; 
 
constancy of speed ± 100 rpm 
─ 
Two-blade agitator 
Material: X5CrNi18-10 – 1.4301 (V2A) 
 
Blade dimension 
Length x width x thickness: (22 x 11,5 x 1) mm 
─ 
Measuring cylinder 
Tall form, 100 ml according to DIN EN ISO 4788 
─ 
Beaker 
Tall form, 400 ml 
─ 
Watch-glass 
Ø 90 mm according to DIN 12341 
─ 
Tweezers 
Length: 250 mm, V2A steel 
4.2.2 
Auxiliary equipment 
─ 
Sandpaper 
Waterproof, no. 320 
─ 
Filter paper 
Acc. to DIN 12448 
4.2.3 
Chemicals 
─ 
Special boiling point spirits According to DIN 51631-2 
─ 
Water 
Distilled or desalinated water 
4.2.4 
Specimen parts 
─ 
Antifriction bearing steel 
Deep-groove ball bearing 6210 according to DIN 625-1  
¼ of the inner ring 
─ 
Copper strip 
Copper Cu-ETP R200 
 
(50 x 5 x 0,5) mm 
4.3 
Sampling 
In accordance with DIN 51750-1 and -2. 


Page 3 
PV 1425: 2008-03 
 
4.4 
Test description 
4.4.1 
Health protection, occupational safety and fire protection 
The general safety regulations for laboratories must be observed during the test procedure. 
4.4.2 
Preparation of the metal specimens 
A new specimen made of antifriction bearing steel is to be used for each test and cleaned using 
boiling point spirit. Furthermore, a copper strip is to be uniformly ground by hand using sandpaper, 
and any grinding dust is to be removed with the aid of filter paper and the boiling point spirit. The 
copper strip is weighed accurately to ± 1 mg [Cu-1]. 
4.4.3 
Sample preparation (oil) 
First, the oil is homogenized and the water contents of the specimen is determined using the Karl-
Fischer-Coulometer according to DIN 51777-1. Then, 98 ml of the lubricating oil to be tested are 
conditioned at room temperature in a beaker so that the kinematic viscosity lies in the range from 
(100 to 200) mm2/s. Following the addition of 2 ml of distilled water, the specimen is mixed for 1 
min at 2000 rpm using the laboratory stirrer. In this process, the distance of the blade agitator shall 
be approx. 5 mm from the bottom of the beaker. 
4.4.4 
Test procedure 
Immediately after preparation, the specimens are placed on the bottom of the beaker containing 
the oil-water-mixture using the tweezers. It is necessary to ensure that the steel specimen lies on 
the curved side and does not contact the copper strip. The beaker is then covered with the watch 
glass and aged for 48 h in the oven at (98 ± 1) °C. 
After expiration of the test time, the beaker is taken out of the oven and cooled to room 
temperature under an extractor hood. After temperature conditioning, both specimens are removed 
from the beaker, rinsed carefully with special boiling point spirit, dried and evaluated. Prior to this, if 
necessary, loosely-adhering black deposits or oxidation coatings are wiped away with moderate 
pressure using filter paper and special boiling point spirit. In addition, the copper strip is weighed 
again [Cu-2]. 
4.5 
Evaluation 
4.5.1 
Copper strip 
The entire copper strip (top side and underside) is evaluated. A description of the appearance is 
permissible. 
─ 
No change in comparison to 
 
the initial condition 
grade 0 
─ 
Slight to moderate discoloration 
grade 1 
─ 
Strong discoloration, layer structure recognizable, 
 
no loosely-adhering deposits 
grade 2 
─ 
Loosely-adhering, easily-removable deposits 
grade 3 
─ 
Weight loss of the test strip 
in mg/cm2 
 
 


Page 4 
PV 1425: 2008-03 
 
Change in weight of the copper strip 
 
In order to calculate the change in weight in mg/cm2, the weight of the copper strip prior to the test 
[Cu-1] (in mg) is subtracted from the weight of the copper strip after the test [Cu-2] (in mg). The 
result is devided by the surface of the copper strip (in cm2) ([Cu-3] ≈ 5,55 cm2). 
Change in weight in mg/cm2 = 
]
3
[
]
2
[
]1
[
−
−
−
−
Cu
Cu
Cu
 
4.5.2 
Roller bearing steel 
─ 
No change in comparison to 
 
the initial condition 
grade 0 
─ 
Slight discoloration 
grade 1 
─ 
Noticeable discoloration, max. 5 rust spots 
grade 2 
─ 
Surface rust, numerous rust spots 
grade 3 
4.5.3 
Sludge formation in oil-water mixture 
After the specimens are removed, the beaker is aged with the oil-water mixture for approx. 24 h at 
room temperature. After that, an attempt is made to emulsify any sedimentation that may be 
present by gentle manual swiveling. 
Constituents that adhere tightly to the bottom of the beaker or remain as clumps in the oil are 
considered sludge. 
If it is possible to emulsify the sedimentation finely dispersed in the oil without residue, it is not 
considered sludge. 
4.6 
Indication of the test results 
The evaluation grade of the specimens and the change in weight of the copper strip after the end of 
the test are to be indicated. 
Starting from grade 2, the test is to be repeated. 
The sludge evaluation must be noted. 
5 
Referenced Standards 
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary for application. In this Section, 
terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
DIN 625-1 
Rolling Bearings; Single Row Radial Contact Ball Bearings 
DIN 12341 
Glass Laboratory Equipment; Watch Glasses 
DIN 12448 
Paper Laboratory Ware; Filter Paper 
DIN 51631 
Mineral Spirits, Special Boiling Point Spirits, Requirements 
DIN 51750-1 
Sampling of Petroleum Products; General Information 
DIN 51750-2 
Sampling of Liquid Petroleum Products 
DIN 51777-1 
Testing of Mineral Oil Hydrocarbons and Solvents; Determination of Water 
Content according to Karl Fischer, Direct Method 
DIN EN ISO 4788 
Laboratory Glassware; Graduated Measuring Cylinders 
