# PV1401.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 22 0
May 2000
3456
Lubricating Oils
Testing the Corrosion Protection
PV
1401
Zentralnorm
Descriptors:
lubricating oils, corrosion protection, saturated atmosphere
Continued on pages 2 to 3
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
K-GQ-31 Engelen   Tel:-2 30 13
Frau Hager-Süß Tel: +49-5361-949035
Sobanski
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung der Volkswagen AG, EZTN, nicht gestattet.
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung.
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of the Volkswagen Group, EZTN, Standard Department.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
VOLKSWAGEN AG – SEAT S A – ŠKODA AUTO a s – AUDI AG
Form FE 41 - 10.99
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to the September 1996 issue:
-  Standard restructured
-  Referenced Standards updated
Previous Issues
First issue: 1967-05
Last change: 1996-09
1 
Scope
This test method is used to determine the corrosion protection of lubricating oils in a saturated at-
mosphere; it is used in sample and series monitoring tests.
2 
Requirements
Refer to the respective technical supply specification for the related requirements.
3 
Test
3.1 
Brief Description
Steel sheets of a specific type are immersed in the oil sample under test and suspended in a hu-
midity chamber after a certain dripping or drying time. The humidity level in this chamber should be
100% at +50° C. The steel sheets are evaluated for signs of corrosion at the end of the prescribed
test duration.
3.2 
Test Equipment see Table 1
Table 1: 
1
Equipment
Climate testing device
Acc. to DIN 50 017, test equipment dark-
ened. (To avoid false data resulting from the
action of light.)
Porcelain dishes
Diameter: 300 mm, height: 55 mm
Pinzette
Length: 250 mm, V2A steel
2
Auxiliary equipment
Cellulose
Commercial
3
Chemicals
Special boiling point spirit
Acc. to DIN 51 631-2-A
Water
Distilled or desalinated water
4
Test panels
Deep-drawing sheet DC04-B acc. to
EN 10 130
Dimensions: 210 x 150 x ~ 0.8 mm
Hole: 8 mm
Average roughness: Ra ~ 1.0 µm
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS (Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen!/Check standard for current issue prior to usage)


Page 2
PV 1401: 2000-05
3.3 
Sampling
Acc. to DIN 51 750 Parts 1 and 2
3.4 
Testing
3.4.1 
Health Protection, Labor Safety and Fire Protection
The general safety regulations for laboratories must be observed during the test procedure.
3.4.2 
Preparation of the Test Panels
Two test panels are required for each lubricating oil to be tested. The cut edges of these test pan-
els are not ground.
The corrosion protection adhering to the test panels is carefully washed off in a porcelain dish us-
ing boiling point spirit applied with cellulose under gentle pressure. This process is repeated until
the cellulose no longer discolors.
The test panels are then rinsed with fresh boiling point spirit and air dried. The test panels must not
be touched by hand once this process is complete.
Once dry, the test panels are immersed in the lubricating oil under test and then suspended verti-
cally in a dust-free environment for 16 hours to allow the excess oil to drip off. The beads of oil that
form at the lower edge of the test panel must be carefully removed using an absorbent cloth before
the test is started.
3.4.3 
Test Procedure
The test panels prepared in this way are suspended in the climatic test chamber prepared acc. to
DIN 50 017. Make sure that no more than 12 test panels are placed in each climatic test chamber
and that they are arranged transverse to the braces in the upper section only.
The test is then performed acc. to DIN 50 017-KFW, i.e. with alternating air humidity and tempera-
ture over 4 test rounds.
3.5 
Evaluation
The entire surface of both sides of the test panels is evaluated following each test round and the
corrosion grade determined (see Table 2). The cut edges of the test panels are not included in the
evaluation.
Table 2: 
Corrosion grade
Meaning
Description
1
No corrosion
Entire surface unchanged
2
Traces of corrosion
Max. 5 rust spots / area
3
Slight corrosion
Up to 5 % surface corrosion
4
Moderate corrosion
5 to 20 % surface corrosion
5
Heavy corrosion
Over 20 % surface corrosion


Page 3
PV 1401: 2000-05
3.6 
Test Result Format
The corrosion grade of both test panels must be specified. If they differ by more than 1 the test
must be repeated with a further 2 test panels.
4 
Referenced Standards
DIN 50 017
Climates and Their Technical Application; Condensed Water Containing
Climates
DIN 51 631
Special Boiling Point Spirits; Requirements
DIN 51 750-1
Testing Mineral Oils; Sampling, General
DIN 51 750-2
Testing Mineral Oils; Sampling, Fluids
DIN EN 10 130
Cold-Rolled Flat Products Made From Soft Steels for Cold Working; Tech-
nical Supply Specifications
