# PV1448.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 20 3
July 1999
Lubricants
PAH Determination
PV
1448
Konzernnorm
Continued on pages 2 to 5
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
EZM/I          Dr. Hartung       Tel.: -2 63 04
Frau Hager-Süß
Tel: +49-5361-929064
Sobanski
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung einer Normenabteilung des Volkswagen Konzerns nicht gestattet.
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung.
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
VOLKSWAGEN AG
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 12.00
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to the October 1993 issue:
-  
Test specification restructured
-  
Two test variants added
-  
Section 3.7 added
Previous Issues
First issue: 10.93
1 
Scope
This test method permits the determination of the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) and
other components in this substance group in primary and secondary raffinates of lubricating oils
rated as having implications for human health; it is used in sample and series monitoring tests.
2 
Requirements
Refer to the respective VW or technical supply specification for the related requirements.
3 
Test Procedure
3.1 
Brief Description
The diluted oil samples are chemically prepared using extraction cartridges according to two possi-
ble variants, the PAH in a fraction enriched in PAH are separated by means of liquid chromatogra-
phy and determined using a variable programmable fluorescence detector.
3.2 
Test Equipment
3.2.1 
Equipment
-  
Glass equipment as in a conventional laboratory setup
-  
Rotary evaporator
-  
Liquid chromatography measuring station, consisting of
Variant 1:
2 analytical pumps (e.g. M 510, Waters), sampling valve (e.g. WISP 712, Wa-
ters), separating column with precolumn (e.g. Bakerbond Widebore C 18.25 *
4.4 mm i.D., RP 18 precolumn 1 * 4.6 mm i.D.), variable programmable fluores-
cence detector (e.g. M 470, Waters), chromatography monitoring and data
evaluation system (e.g. Millenium 2010, Waters).
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2
PV 1448: 1999-07
Variant 2:
2 analytical pumps (e.g. M 510, Waters) and 1 solvent delivery pump
(e.g. M 501, Waters), sampling valve (e.g. WISP 712, Waters), automatic
6-position high-pressure valve (e.g. Waters Automated Valve Station (WAVS))
with a Chrompack ChromSpher n column (20 * 3 mm), a Chrompack Chrom-
Spher PAH column (25 * 4.6 mm i.D., 5 µ) with RP 18 precolumn (1 * 4.6 mm
i.D.), variable programmable fluorescence detector (e.g. M 470, Waters), chro-
matography monitoring and data evaluation system (e.g. Millenium 2010, Wa-
ters).
3.2.2 
Auxiliary Equipment
-  
Vacuum box for cartridge extraction (e.g. Baker vacuum manifold, 12-port design)
-  
Fixed phase extraction cartridges as follows
Variant 1:
-  
Silica gel, modified with aromatic sulfonic acid, 500 mg (e.g. Bakerbond sulfonic acid)
-  
Florisil, 1 000 mg (e.g. Bakerbond florisil)
-  
Sephadex LH 20 (source of supply: Pharmacia, Sweden)
-  
Disposable columns, 6 ml (e.g. Bakerbond disposable column, pore width 20 µm)
Variant 2:
RP 18 modified silica gel, 100 mg (e.g. Bond Elut C 18, Varian)
3.2.3 
Chemicals
-  
Acetonitrile for the chromatography
-  
Methanol for the chromatography
-  
Water for the chromatography
-  
Hexane pa
-  
Dichlormethane pa
-  
Isopropanol pa
-  
Standard compounds of all PAH with implications for human health and of the internal stan-
dard p-quarterphenyl (sources of supply: Promochem, Wesel and/or EGA Chemie, Steinheim
for example).
-  
The following 12 PAH have been defined as having implications for human health:
-  
Benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) (major component)
-  
Dibenz(a,h)anthracene (DBahA)
-  
Benz(a)anthracene (BaA)
-  
Benzo(b)fluoranthene (BbF)
-  
Benzo(j)fluoranthene (BjF)
-  
Benzo(k)fluoranthene (BkF)
-  
Chrysene (Chy)
-  
Dibenzo(a,e)pyrene (DBaeP)
-  
Dibenzo(a,h)pyrene (DBahP)
-  
Dibenzo(a,i)pyrene (DBaiP)
-  
Dibenzo(a,l)pyrene (DBaIP)
-  
Indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene (Ind)


Page 3
PV 1448: 1999-07
3.3 
Sampling
The oils in as-received condition are homogenized in the ultrasound bath for approx. 3 minutes in
advance of sample removal. Then
-  
for variant 1: approx. 1 ml of oil is removed, the specimen is weighed and filled to 10 ml with n-
hexane. The diluted specimen is homogenized once more in the ultrasound batch and is then
ready for reprocessing. Between 0.5 and 1.5 ml of the oil specimen dissolved in hexane is fur-
ther processed depending on the expected concentration range.
-  
for variant 2: approx. 50 to 100 µl of the oil is weighed directly onto the RP 18 cartridge.
3.4 
Reprocessing
Variant 1:
The first step in reprocessing uses a 2-stage fixed phase cartridge combination (benzene sulfonic
acid/florisil). Following the addition of the internal standard (p-quarterphenyl as a hexane or toluene
solution) the suctioned, diluted, homogenized oil specimen on the cartridge combination is eluted
using a total of 4 ml n-hexane and the eluate is discarded (separation of fixed phase particles, ionic
and sulfurous compounds). The dual cartridge unit is then separated and the PAH are eluted from
the florisil acid (PAH fraction) using 10 ml of 50 % dichlormethane/50 % hexane.
The high proportion of alkylated 2 and 3-ring PAH means that the specimen must then undergo
chromatographic cleaning using Sephadex LH 20. To this end, the collected PAH fraction is con-
centrated using the rotary evaporator, dissolved in 1 ml of isopropanol and placed on a self-packed
Sephadex LH 20 cartridge.
This cartridge is manufactured by weighing approx. 1.5 g of Sephadex LH 20 into a glass container
and reducing it to slurry with approx. 30 ml of isopropanol. The Sephadex is then allowed to swell
for at least two days before being inserted into a Baker filter cartridge 10 SPE (pore width 20 µm).
This gives a length of approx. 4.2 cm.
Once the specimen is placed on the column it is eluted using a total of 40 ml of isopropanol. The
first 9 ml are discarded (breakthrough volume for BaA) and the fraction from 10 to 40 ml collected.
It is concentrated, dissolved in acetonitrile and can then be analyzed.
Since the PAH fraction is completely eluted from the cartridge and polar compounds will already
have been separated to a great extent (florisil acid), the self-packed Sephadex cartridge can be
reused for some time. If it is reused the breakthrough volume for BaA must be regularly checked. A
new Sephadex cartridge must be used if there is a noticeable change in the old one or coloration of
the pure white Sephadex filling indicates the irreversible adsorption of polar compounds.
A low vacuum can be applied when using a vacuum box to elute the cartridges. However the drop
rate must be set below approx. 1 drop per second so as not to adversely affect the degree of sepa-
ration. Under these conditions, elution of a cartridge containing 40 ml of isopropanol will take about
an hour.
If you also wish to determine the 3-ring aromatic hydrocarbons and the 4-ring compounds fluoran-
thene and pyrene - these are not included in the PAH with implications for human health - you must
collect eluate from the eighth ml. It is recommended to collect the fraction from 8 to 9 ml separately
from the remaining eluate as it contains numerous impurities that impair the determination of the
subsequent compounds. The anthracene, phenantrene, fluoranthene and pyrene content is calcu-
lated from the total of two measurements (new internal standard must be added to the fraction from
8 to 9 ml prior to the measurement).


Page 4
PV 1448: 1999-07
Variant 2:
Following the addition of the internal standard (p-quarterphenyl as a methanol solution) the car-
tridge is extracted with 8 to 10 ml methanol. This washes out the quantity of PAH; particle compo-
nents and the majority of the covalent hydrocarbon matrix remain on the column. The extract is
concentrated to approx. 200 µl to 2 ml depending on the concentration range.
3.5 
Analysis
Liquid chromatography with fluoresence detection is used for the subsequent analysis. A variable
programmable fluorescence detector must be used. The following chromatographic conditions
permit the determination of all PAH with implications for human health:
Variant 1:
-  
Column:
Bakerbond Widebore C 18, 25 * 4.4 mm i.D.
-  
Flow:
0.8 ml/min
-  
Mobile solvent program:
Time (min)           Mobile solvent
  0 to    5
55 % acetonitrile, 45 % water
  5 to  28
increase to 98 % acetonitrile, 2 % water
28 to  58
98 % acetonitrile, 2 % water
58 to  63
reduce to 55 % acetonitrile, 45 % water
63 to  65
55 % acetonitrile, 45 % water
-  
Detection:
programmable fluorescence detector
Time (min)                     Ex/Em (nm)           Compounds
0.0 to 20.8
252/423
anthracene, phenanthrene, fluoranthene
20.8 to 28.2
269/383
pyrene, BaA, Chy
28.2 to 35.9
290/420
BeP, BbF, BjF, BkF, BaP, DBahA, DBaIP, BghiP
35.9 to 37.0
300/500
Ind
37.0 to 65.0
295/430
DBaeP, IS, anthanthrene, coronene, DBaiP, DBahP
All PAH with implications for human health with the exception of the compounds BbF/BjF and
DBahA/DBaIP can be chromatographically separated if these conditions are adhered to. The
DBaIP can, if necessary, be determined using the wavelength combination 370/440 as the DBahA
does not then show any fluorescence. This does, however, necessitate an additional chromato-
graphical run. No selective excitation/emission has been found for the pair BbF/BjF, with the result
that they are always represented as a total.
Variant 2:
10 to 30 pl of the extract is placed on the π column using the automatic sampling valve and eluted
with 50 % methanol/50 % water (no n electrons) for 5 minutes in advance of analysis. During this
time, the analytical column is conditioned using the mobile phase for PAH separation.
After a wash time of 5 min, the π column in the return flow is eluted using the mobile phase (aceto-
nitrile/water) and the PAH from the acetonitrile containing π electrons is washed over the analytical
column. 5 minutes of elution time is sufficient to elute the PAH from the π column. For that reason,
the analytical column is reconnected directly to the analytical pumps 10 minutes after analysis be-
gins, the precolumn is returned to its original, π electron-free state using methanol/water and is
then ready for a further injection. The separation of the PAH continues on the analytical column
during this time.


Page 5
PV 1448: 1999-07
-  
Column:
Chrompack ChromSpher PAH (25 * 4.6 mm i.D., 5 µ)
-  
Flow:
1.0 ml/min
-  
Mobile solvent program:
Time (min)           Mobile solvent
    0 to      7
75 % acetonitrile, 25 % water
    7 to      9
reduce to 50 % acetonitrile, 50 % water
    9 to     10
50 % acetonitrile, 50 % water
  10 to     40
increase to 98 % acetonitrile, 2 % water
  40 to   105
98 % acetonitrile, 2 % water
105 to   110
reduce to 75 % acetonitrile, 25 % water
110 to   115
75 % acetonitrile, 25 % water
-  
Detection:
Waters M 470 programmable fluorescence detector
Time (min)                  Ex/Em (nm)              Compounds
  0.0 to    19.0
266/324
Naphthalene, alkyl naphthalene, fluorene
19.0 to    26.0
252/383
Phenanthrene (Phe), anthracene (Anthra)
26.0 to    28.0
288/462
Fluoranthene (Flu)
28.0 to    41.3
269/383
Pyrene (Pyr), benz(a)anthracene (BaA), chrysene
(Chy), (BNT) benzonaphtho(2,1-d)thiophene
41.3 to    51.0
290/420
Benzo(e)pyrene (BeP), benzo(b)fluoranthene (BbF),
benzo(k)fluoranthene (BkF), benzo(a)pyrene (BaP),
dibenzo(a,l)pyrene (DBaIP), dibenz(a,h)anthracene,
(DBahA), benzo(ghi)perylene (BghiP)
51.0 to    53.0
300/500
Indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene (Ind)
53.0 to    64.0
295/430
Dibenzo(a,e)pyrene (DBaeP), IS (quaterphenyl)
anthanthrene (Ana)
64.0 to    77.0
303/448
Coronene (Cor)
77.0 to    91.0
391/436
Dibenzo(a,i)pyrene (DBaiP)
91.0 to  115.0
309/453
Dibenzo(a,h)pyrene (DBahP)
All PAH with implications for human health with the exception of the compounds BbF/BjF can be
chromatographically separated if these conditions are adhered to. No chromatographical separa-
tion or selective excitation/emission has been found for the pair BbF/BjF, with the result that they
are always represented as a total.
3.6 
Evaluation
The liquid chromatogram is evaluated using a chromatography monitoring and evaluation terminal
(e.g. Millenium 2010, Waters). The standard methods used in trace analysis shall be used to cali-
brate this terminal. (See also VW status report no. 9310 V/5 "Rapid liquid chromatography method
for determining PAH with implications for human health in oil specimens" and/or VW status report
no. EZF 9601 V/5 "Development of a simplified rapid method of determining PAH in matrices from
the automotive area", for example.)
The PAH concentration is specified in µg PAH/g oil = weight ppm.
3.7 
Method Characteristics
The recovery rate for PAH with implications for human health averages 91 % if the conditions de-
scribed are adhered to (97 % for the major component BaP), the limits of detection are more than
two powers of ten below the limit values to be examined. The standard deviation is within the nor-
mal range for complex environmental matrices at < 20 % for PAH concentrations > 0.1 ppm and ≤
50 % for PAH concentrations ≤ 0.1 ppm.
