# PV14-06.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 75 1 
August 1986 
Test Specification 
Sealing and Underbody Protection Materials 
Test of Temperature Resistance 
P-VW 
14.06 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 2 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
D.Thomas/H.Winarske/S.Steimann/K.Könn 
 
Tel: +49-5361-9- 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Re.: 
Temperature resistance of sealing and underbody protection materials 
1 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Test Specification P-VW 14.06, 08.75: 
─ 
P-VW revised, adapted to the state of the art 
2 
Aim 
The Test Specification serves to assess the influence of heat (environmental cycle test) on the 
underbody protection and sealing materials. 
3 
Procedure 
3.1 
Equipment and auxiliary equipment 
a) Laboratory mechanical circulation oven 
b) Programmable climatic test chamber 
c) 
Primed steel sheets, min. 12 x 28 cm 
d) Airless spraying device 
3.2 
Preparation of the test panels 
The test panels shall be coated as in standard production. 
See also Test Specification PV 14.18, Sections 2.2.1 and 2.2.2 
3.3 
Test 
In general, a minimum of one test panel is aged at room temperature for use as a control sample. 
3.3.1 
24 h at +80 °C 
3.3.2 
72 h at +80 °C or +90 °C 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
PV 14. 06: 1986-08 
 
3.3.3 
Temperature cycle aging 
3.3.3.1 Heat cycle aging, cycle I 
8 h +23 °C 
50% rel. humidity 
Setting time 0.5 h 
16 h +40 °C 
" 
" 
8 h +23 °C 
" 
" 
16 h +80 °C 
" 
" 
8 h +23 °C 
" 
" 
Three runs, total running time 168 h 
3.3.3.2 Environmental cycle aging, cycle II 
16 h +23 °C 
50% rel. humidity 
Setting time 1 h 
8 h +80 °C 
" 
Setting time 0.5 h 
16 h +23 °C 
" 
Setting time 1 h 
8 h -35 °C 
- 
" 
16 h +23 °C 
50% rel. humidity 
" 
72 h +40 °C 
98% rel. humidity 
" 
8 h +23 °C 
50% rel. humidity 
" 
Total running time 144 h 
4 
Evaluation 
The following evaluation criteria must be taken into consideration (comparison with unstressed 
test panel). 
4.1 
Adhesion and flexibility, see PV 14.02 
4.2 
Cracking, brittling 
4.3 
Paintability, tackiness 
After aging at elevated temperature (environmental aging), a corrosion stress test can be 
performed (e.g., salt spray fog test according to DIN 50 021 SS, moisture condensate alternating 
atmosphere test according to DIN 50 017 KFW or cycle test according to P-VW 1210). 
5 
Referenced standards*) 
PV 14.02 
Sealants and Damping Compounds; Testing of Adhesion Behaviour on 
Cathodic Dip Paint 
PV 14.18 
Sealants and Damping Compounds; Test of Overpaintability 
                                                
*) In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
