# PV1483.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 57225 
November 2007 
Transmission Oils 
Testing of Pitting Load Carrying Capacity in Bearings with 
Rolling Contact 
Fatigue Test 
PV 
1483 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
transmission oil, rolling-contact bearing lubrication, FE 8, bearing fatigue, pitting, 
micropitting test, fatigue test, micropitting 
 
Page 1 of 3 
Fachverantwortung/Technical Responsibility 
Normung/Standards 
K-GQL-3/2 
Dr. Fahl 
Dr. Beyersdorf 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-23564 
EKTC/4 
Ms. Hager-Süß 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-49035 
EKTC Terlinden 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Contract partners shall obtain this standard only through the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.06 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
Numerical notation according to ISO practice (see VW 01000). 
1 
Scope 
This test method is used to characterize and differentiate transmission oils (automatic transmission 
fluid (ATF), manual transmission oils, axle drive oils, transfer case oils) with regard to their lubrica-
tion properties in rolling-contact bearings. 
2 
Definition 
The primary function of transmission oil in rolling-contact bearings is to reduce friction, minimize 
wear, and delay bearing fatigue to a very significant degree. In order to test the suitability of trans-
mission oils with regard to these properties, appropriate rolling-contact bearing test machines are 
used. The procedure described in this Test Specification is a fatigue test with comparatively me-
dium-sized load and high speed and with achieved runtime as the test criterion. The complete 
qualification testing of transmission oil comprises at least 2 test runs with 2 bearings each. 
3 
Requirements 
If not otherwise defined in the Technical Supply Specification (TL): 
Test duration > 200 h or > 8,64 million revolutions. 
4 
Test 
4.1 
Brief description of procedure 
Rolling-contact bearing fatigue test with axial cylinder roller bearings for differentiation of transmis-
sion oils with regard to their lubrication properties in rolling-contact bearings. The main criterion is 
the achieved runtime. 
4.2 
Equipment 
Rolling-contact bearing lubrication test equipment based on DIN 51819-1 and DIN 51819-3 with oil 
testing unit. Infinitely variable speed from 300 min-1 to 750 min-1. 
Variable axial load to 60 kN ± 1 kN. External ventilation possible, but must be described. 
─ 
Vibration signal acquisition (RMS value) for shutdown if surface pitting occurs 
─ 
Also recorded: temperatures (measuring point shall be indicated), moment of friction, vibration 
signal 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
PV 1483: 2007-11 
 
4.3 
Test bearing 
─ 
2 bearings per test run 
─ 
INA bearing 81212 TN, polyamide (PA) cage (19 rollers) 
─ 
Source of supply: Aßmann Ingenieurdienste Aachen, test bearing PL 
─ 
Roller contour shall be measured (e.g. single score marks < 1 µm, hollow convexity < 0,1 µm, 
no blow marks) 
─ 
Roughness of housing plates Ra (0,06 to 0,1) µm 
4.4 
Test preparation 
Before starting the test, clean the test head with a suitable solvent, e.g., petroleum ether according 
to DIN 51632-1-N-2, and then dry it. 
4.4.1 
Test conditions 
The following conditions apply to the fatigue test: 
─ 
Axial load: 60 kN ± 1 kN 
─ 
Lubrication: oil volume 4 l, flow rate 2 × (0,1 ± 0,02) l/min, filtration 10 µm beta K ≥ 100, no oil 
cooling 
─ 
Temperature on the outside of the housing plates: (100 ± 3) °C, steady state shall be reached 
within 2 h of runtime 
─ 
Runtime 200 h, shutdown criteria: 
- 60 Nm limit is exceeded (machine limit) 
- Steady-state torque is exceeded by >15% 
- Steady-state vibration signal is exceeded by >50% 
─ 
For rotational speeds, see Section 4.5 
4.5 
Test procedure 
The target runtime is at least 200 h. The fatigue test follows the run-in procedure without any inter-
ruption. 
1. 
Run-in procedure: 
rotational speed: 500 min-1 – duration: 24 h 1 
2. 
Fatigue test: 
rotational speed: 750 min-1 – duration: 176 h 2 
4.6 
Evaluation 
The main evaluation criterion is the bearing runtime. The scope of the documentation also includes: 
─ 
Characteristic curve of the temperatures and the moment of friction 
─ 
Photographs of tested bearings, notes on special characteristics 
4.7 
Test result format 
The determined values shall be recorded in a test report with reference to this test specification. 
                                               
1 If operation at a constant temperature (100 °C) is  not possible during the run-in procedure due to very high 
friction moments and the resulting development of heat, the run-in procedure is performed at lower 
rotational speeds (400 min-1 or 300 min-1). 
2 If operation at constant temperature (100 °C) is n ot possible following the run-in procedure due to high 
friction moments and the resulting development of heat, the rotational speed remains at the level of 
the run-in procedure until operation at constant temperature is possible. A total of 8,64 million 
revolutions shall still be achieved (with the runtime extended accordingly). 


Page 3 
PV 1483: 2007-11 
 
4.8 
Test accuracy according to DIN EN ISO 4259 
The following characteristics are used in order to evaluate the reliability of results. 
4.8.1 
Repeatability 
The repeatability will be determined at a later time. 
4.8.2 
Comparability 
The comparability will be determined at a later time. 
5 
Referenced documents3 
DIN 51819-1 
Testing of Lubricants – Mechanical-Dynamic Testing in the Roller Bearing 
Test Apparatus FE8 - Part 1: General Working Principles 
DIN 51819-3 
Testing of Lubricants – Mechanical-Dynamic Testing in the Roller Bearing 
Test Apparatus FE8 - Part 3: Test Method for Lubricating Oils, Axial Cylin-
drical Roller Bearing 
DIN EN ISO 4259 
Petroleum Products – Determination and Application of Precision Data in 
Relation to Methods of Test 
                                               
3 In this Section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
