# PV1471.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 22 5
January 2001
Transmission Oils
Defining the Coefficient of Friction / Slip Velocity Profile in
the One-Piece Thrust Washer Tribosystem
PV
1471
Konzernnorm
Descriptors: transmission oil, coefficient of friction / slip velocity profile, one-piece thrust
washer material, one-piece thrust washer
Continued on pages 2 to 4
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
K-QS-31
Denecke
Tel:-77541
Frau Hager-Süß Tel: +49-5361-9
Sobanski
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung der Volkswagen AG, EZTN, nicht gestattet.
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung.
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of the Volkswagen Group, EZTN, Standard Department.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Form FE 41 - 10.99
1 
Scope
This test procedure is used to define the coefficient of friction / slip velocity profile of transmission
oils with respect to one-piece thrust washer materials in relation to stick-slip with the aid of a
translatory oscillation tester.
2 
Definition
The properties of the transmission oil with respect to one-piece thrust washer materials are defined
as the coefficient of friction / slip velocity profile of the one-piece thrust washer/transmission
oil/steel tribosystem with oscillating sliding friction.
A friction-oscillation factor [FOF] is calculated from the individual coefficient of friction profiles.
A lower factor value indicates sufficient protection against stick-slip.
3 
Requirements
See technical supply specification
4 
Test Procedure
4.1 
Brief Description of the Procedure
The specimens mounted in the test chamber of the oscillation tester (steel washer against one-
piece thrust washer material and transmission oil as intermediate medium) are subjected to trans-
latory oscillations at the prescribed normal force, test frequency, amplitude and test temperature.
The oscillation signal is recorded using a measuring system.
4.2 
Equipment
• 
Translatory oscillation tester acc. to DIN 51 834-1
• 
Measurement data acquisition, e.g. Pro View Gould Analysis and Protocol Software
• 
Basic specimen: 100Cr6, SRV order number 291.15.05
• 
Counter-check specimen: 
One-piece thrust washer material (unless otherwise requested)
Material designation: PPA AMODEL AT-11 16 HS
affixed to specimen with SRV order no. 291 150.16
• 
Torque screwdriver, 0.5 to 5 Nm
• 
Pinzette
• 
Single-shot syringe, 1 ml
4.3 
Sampling
Sampling according to DIN 51 750, Parts 1 and 2.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS (Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen!/Check standard for current issue prior to usage)


Page 2
PV 1471: 20001-01
4.4 
Test Preparation
The basic specimen, the counter-check specimen and the specimen supports must be cleaned
with a suitable solvent, e.g. special boiling point spirit as per DIN 51 631-2-A, and subsequently
dried prior to the test.
4.4.1 
Test Conditions
• 
Load FN = 50 N
• 
Temperature θ = 80° C / 100° C
• 
Frequency ν = 30 Hz
• 
Amplitude s = 1 000 µm
4.5 
Test Procedure
The basic specimen is mounted in the basic specimen support. The attachment screw is loosely
fastened. The single-shot syringe is then used to place approx. 0.3 ml of the transmission oil to be
tested onto the basic specimen. The counter-check specimen is inserted in the mounted counter-
check specimen support and the attachment screw loosely fastened here also.
The testing force FN of 50 N is applied. The attachment screws on the two specimen supports are
loosened and then tightened using the torque screwdriver with a torque of 2.2 to 2.5 Nm. The
electrical resistance heating is turned on and the test temperature set.
Once the test temperature is reached, it should be maintained for approx. 10 minutes to obtain as
even a distribution of heat as possible.
4.6 
Test Run
It must be checked whether the oscillation distance regulator was reset to zero if this does not
happen automatically.
The test frequency ν = 30 Hz, the test temperature θ = 80° C or 100° C, the measuring amplifier
and the measurement value acquisition system must also be checked and, if necessary, adjusted.
The oscillation drive must be turned on and the required amplitude s = (1 000 ± 0.5)µm set. The
continuous line recorder must be turned on.
Once the static friction coefficient (shown on the continuous line recorder) has stabilized and
shows a uniform curve, the measurement data acquisition system is activated and the individual
oscillations recorded.
The test is ended as soon as this data has been recorded. The test must be performed three times.
4.7 
Evaluation
In the friction coefficient profiles obtained as described in section 4.6, µ1,µ2 and µ3 are determined
from the mean of two successive oscillations (see Figure 1) and the formula
[RSF=2µ1 - 2µ2 + µ3]
is used to calculate the friction-oscillation factor [FOF].


Page 3
PV 1471: 2001-01
If the friction coefficient between µ1 and µ3 passes through a minimum, µmin is used in the above
equation instead of µ2 (see Figure 2) and the formula
[RSF=2µ1-2µmin+µ3]
is used to calculate the friction-oscillation factor [FOF].
The obtained values are averaged and any freak values are eliminated.
4.8 
Test Result Format
The values determined according to section 4.6 must be recorded in a test report with reference to
this test specification. The results must be rounded to two decimal places.
Example:
A Tangent
Figure 1: 
Figure 2:
4.9 
Test Accuracy as per EN ISO 4259
The following characteristics are used to evaluate the reliability of results.
4.9.1 
Repeatability
(One observer, one device)
If an observer determines two results under repeat conditions, the two results are regarded as ac-
ceptable and complying with standards if the friction-oscillation factor [FOF] differs by no more than
0.02.
4.9.2 
Comparability
(Different observers, different test devices)
Comparability will be determined at a later point in time if need be.


Page 4
PV 1471: 20001-01
5 
Referenced Standards
DIN 51 750-1
Testing Mineral Oils; Sampling, General
DIN 51 750-2
Testing Mineral Oils; Sampling, Fluids
DIN 51 834-1
Lubricant Testing; Tribological Tests in the Translatory Oscillation Tester;
Part 1: General Working Basics
DIN EN ISO 4259
Mineral Oil Products; Determining and Using the Values for Test Procedure
Accuracy
