# PV1502.pdf

Clear Coat for Dual-Layer Metallic Paint Coatings
Testing for Resistance to Cracking
Previous issues
PV 1502: 1987-04, 1996-12, 2003-05
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to PV 1502: 2003-05:
–
Weather-O-Meter CI 35 test device removed
–
Referenced documents updated
Scope
This standard describes a procedure for testing the resistance to cracking of the clear coats used in
dual-layer paint coatings. The procedure corresponds largely to the content of VDA 621-430 "Tests
for Coating Methods; Tests for Resistance to Cracking of Clear Coats in Dual-Layer Metallic Paint
Coatings".
Description
Resistance to cracking according to PV 1502
Requirements
Requirements according to drawing and/or TL (Technical Supply Specification).
Test
Test equipment
Xenotest Beta LM or Xenotest 1200CPS by Atlas Material Testing Technology GmbH.
1  
2  
3  
4  
4.1  
Group Standard
PV 1502
Issue 2008-06
Class. No.:
50241
Descriptors:
clear coat, metallic, paint, resistance to cracking
Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
Numerical notation acc. to ISO practice.
Page 1 of 4
Technical responsibility
Standards department
GQL-LP/3
Lutz Porzelt
Tel.: +49-5361-9-75066
GQL-LP
Dr. Roger Hillert
EKTC/4 Jürgen Wiesner
EKTC
Tel.: +49-5361-9-29064
Manfred Terlinden
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform "www.vwgroupsupply.com".
© VOLKSWAGEN AG
VWNORM-2007-10e
QUELLE: NOLIS


Specimen preparation
Unless otherwise agreed, 0,8 mm thick steel panels (body panels) of a size suitable to the relevant
test equipment must be used as the paint substrate.
To ensure that the test results are not corrupted by the influence of corrosion, the steel panels must
be protected by a primer coat. In order to ensure that the weathering result is as close to reality as
possible, the original paint structure must be used; adherence to the layer thickness acc. to Sec‐
tion 4.3 is particularly important.
Test standards
In order to monitor the continuous operation of the weathering device, clear paints for which the
cracking behavior and times are known must be used. These test standards remain in the weathering
device constantly during testing and are replaced when they start to crack.
They are produced as follows:
–
Paint substrate: 0,8-mm-thick body panel sheet metal
–
Pretreatment: zinc-phosphated
–
Corrosion protection: electrocoated
–
Structure:
Filler
Base coat: silver metallic (without light stabilizers), approx. 15 µm layer thickness
Clear coat: FF 68-0102 from BASF L+M, Münster Hiltrup, approx. 40 µm to 50 µm layer thickness
10 min flash-off time, then baked for 20 min at +130 °C in the mechanical circulation oven.
The aging period of the liquid paints is max. 12 months at room temperature.
The aging period of the test standards is max. 24 months at room temperature.
Procedure
The tests are preferably conducted on at least two specimen panels per paint system. The device
conditions are described in Table 1.
During testing it is important to ensure that no spray water stains form on the specimens.
The spray water must be renewed in every rain simulation phase and must be free of reaction prod‐
ucts, abraded materials, and SiO2.
Evaluation
The specimen panels are examined for the formation of cracks every 500 h (standards after 250 h,
then every 24 h thereafter) using a magnifying glass (8× magnification). In cases of doubt, a stereo
microscope (20× magnification) must be used.
The start of cracking is the test period after which at least 10 cracks are evident on the paint surface.
The type and number of cracks must be described according to DIN ISO 4628-4. Changes in gloss
must be evaluated before and after weathering in accordance with DIN 67530.
4.2  
4.3  
4.4  
4.5  
Page 2
PV 1502: 2008-06


Test report
The following information must be provided in the test report with reference to PV 1502:
–
Type and designation of the paint structure
–
Layer thickness of the clear coat
–
Start of cracking according to device hours
–
Type and number of cracks
–
Start of non-paint-specific cracking on blisters and foreign matter inclusions
–
Change in gloss
–
Other changes in the paint coating, such as yellowing or blistering
–
Test date
Table 1 – Device conditions
1
Irradiation source
3 air-cooled Xenon arc lamps, 2 800 W each;
Irradiator replacement: when it is no longer adjustable
2
Optical filter
2.1
Xenotest Beta LM
Xenochrom 300
2.2
Xenotest 1200CPS
2½ Suprax Drittelschalen
3
Irradiation intensity
60 W/m² at 300 to 400 nm;
Control via light monitor
4
Specimen mode
Non-turning mode
5
Bright/dark phase
120 min light phase + 60 min dark phase
6
Rain simulation cycle
40 min dry phase (with light),
20 min spraying (with light) on the front side of the speci‐
men,
60 min dry phase (with light),
60 min spraying (without light) on the front side of the spec‐
imen
7
Type of rain simulation
Spraying with de-ionized water (room temperature)
8
Specimen room ventilation
Fresh air/circulation mode
9
Black standard temperature
+73 °C to 76 °C at the end of the dry phase,
+37 °C to 39 °C during the dark phase
10
Specimen chamber tempera‐
ture
+47 °C in the light phase,
+38 °C in the dark phase
11
Relative humidity
50 ± 5% during the dry phase,
95 ± 5% during the rain simulation and dark phases
Referenced documents
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary for application.
In this Section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
4.6  
5  
Page 3
PV 1502: 2008-06


DIN 67530
Reflectometer as a means for gloss assessment of plane surfaces of paint
coatings and plastics
DIN ISO 4628-4
–
VDA 621-430
Tests for Coating Methods; Tests for Resistance to Cracking of Clear
Coats in Dual-Layer Metallic Paint Coatings
Page 4
PV 1502: 2008-06
