# PV1503.pdf

Paint Coating of Metallic and Non-Metallic Materials
Pressure Washer Test
Previous issues
PV 1503: 1987-10, 1996-12, 1998-02, 2003-03; PV 1504: 1990-10
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to PV 1504: 1990-10:
–
Adaptation to DIN 55662
–
Incorporation of Test Method A of DIN 55662 as Test B
–
Incorporation of Test Method C of DIN 55662 as Test C
–
Update of referenced documents
Scope
This standard describes a procedure to determine paint adhesion on metallic and non-metallic ma‐
terials. The procedure uses three tests to simulate the stresses produced when surfaces are cleaned
with a pressure washer:
Test A: Flat angle of jet at the two intersecting legs of the St. Andrew's cross, for locations and
suppliers that do not have automated test equipment, e.g., made by Walter, and for components
whose shapes cannot be tested in the equipment
Test B: Steep angle of jet in the center of the St. Andrew's cross, Test Method A of DIN 55662 "Paints
and Varnishes – Coatings for Plastic Mounting Parts for Automotive Industry – Testing of Resistance
to Water-Vapour Jetting".
Test C: Same as Test B, but with a longer test duration and a greater distance between the nozzle
and the specimen.
The test to be used must be agreed with the responsible engineering department.
1  
Group Standard
PV 1503
Issue 2008-05
Class. No.:
50241
Descriptors:
color, paint, paint coating, paint adhesion, pressure washer test
Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
Numerical notation acc. to ISO practice.
Page 1 of 4
Technical responsibility
Standards department
GQL-LP/2
Angela Kern
Tel.: +49-5361-9-28507
GQL-LP/2
Dr. Annett Schramm
GQL-LP
Dr. Roger Hillert
EKTC/4 Jürgen Wiesner
EKTC
Tel.: +49-5361-9-29064
Manfred Terlinden
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform "www.vwgroupsupply.com".
© VOLKSWAGEN AG
VWNORM-2007-10e
QUELLE: NOLIS


Description
Pressure washer test according to PV 1503A
Pressure washer test according to PV 1503B
Pressure washer test according to PV 1503C
Test Method
Devices and auxiliary equipment
–
Pressure washer (e.g., products made by Kärcher or Walter)
–
Painted non-metallic substrates (e.g., bumper and mirror housing) and/or painted metallic parts
on the exterior and chassis parts
–
Cutter knife
–
Polystyrene rigid foam
Conditioning of specimens
Prior to unloaded pressure washer test (as-received condition)
–
Painted plastic parts: 7 days at room temperature or 48 h at + 60 °C (test is performed after
cooling down the specimens at room temperature for approximately 2 h)
–
Painted metallic parts on the exterior and the chassis: 24 h in the DIN 50014–23/50-2 standard
climate.
Prior to pressure washer test after loading
(loading, e.g., aging in CH test atmosphere according to DIN EN ISO 6270-2 for 240 h)
–
Painted plastic parts: 24 h in the DIN 50014–23/50-2 standard climate.
–
Painted metallic parts on the exterior and the chassis: Approximately 2 h in the DIN 50014–
23/50-2 standard climate
Test parameters
See Table 1.
2  
3  
3.1  
3.2  
3.2.1  
3.2.2  
3.3  
Page 2
PV 1503: 2008-05


Table 1
Test parameter
PV 1503A
PV 1503B
Test Method A
of DIN 55662
PV 1503C
Test Method C
of DIN 55662
Angle of impact/angle of jet
45°, see Figure 1
90°
90°
Section
Cutter
Type of cut
St. Andrew's cross
Distance to specimen
15 cm
10 cm
13 cm
Temperature
70 °C after discharge from
nozzle, measured in bucket
(according to DIN 55662, Ap‐
pendix A.2.1)
60 °C ± 2 °C after discharge
from nozzle, measured in
bucket
60 °C ± 2 °C after discharge
from nozzle, measured in
bucket
Test duration
20 s per cut
30 s
60 s
Flow rate
10,5 l/min, volumetric meter‐
ing by means of weight at
working pressure of 9 MPa ±
0,5 MPa, impact pressure of
19 N ± 2 N
11,3 l/min ± 0,1 l/min, volu‐
metric metering by means of
weight at test temperature
11,3 l/min ± 0,1 l/min, volu‐
metric metering by means of
weight at test temperature
Nozzle
EG 2505
1/4 PMEG - 2506
1/4 PMEG - 2506
Figure 1 – Spraying for 20 s each at a 45° angle on both legs of the St. Andrew's cross
Checking the jet pattern
An extruded polystyrene rigid foam with sealed cell structure and flame-retardant additive is used to
check the jet pattern. The polystyrene block is clamped and the test is performed. In this process, the
distance from the nozzle to the polystyrene block is 12 cm for Test A and 10 cm for Test B/C.
The width of the spray jet is 8 mm ± 1 mm. The length of the spray jet must not exceed 100 mm for
Test A and is 70 mm ± 5 mm for Test B/C (corresponds to Figure A1 in Appendix A of DIN 55662).
3.4  
Page 3
PV 1503: 2008-05


Procedure
A crosscut (St. Andrew's cross) is made in the specimen, in which the paint structure is scratched or
damaged down to the substrate (corresponding to Figure 2, Section 8.1 of DIN 55662).
The specimen is exposed to the conditions of the pressure washer load indicated in Section 3.3.
Evaluation
After the pressure washer loading, the specimen is visually examined for separation of the paint
surface and at the St. Andrew's cross.
The degree of damage is evaluated according to the representations in Figure 4, Section 9.2 of
DIN 55662. Minor flakes up to 1 mm caused by unfavorable cutting at the crosscut will not be included
in the evaluation.
Referenced documents
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary for application.
In this Section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
DIN 50014
Climates and their technical application; standard atmospheres
DIN 55662
Paints and Varnishes – Coatings for Plastic Mounting Parts for Automotive
Industry – Testing of Resistance to Water-Vapour Jetting
DIN EN ISO 6270-2
Paints and varnishes - Determination of resistance to humidity - Part 2:
Procedure for exposing test specimens in condensation-water atmo‐
spheres
3.5  
3.6  
4  
Page 4
PV 1503: 2008-05
