# PV2034_EN_04.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 55 03 1 
April 2004 
Non-Metallic Planar Fabrics 
Peel Test 
PV 
2034 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
peel test, molded headlining, pillar trim panel, upholstery fabric, nonwoven, 
film, carpet, foamed leatherette 
 
Page   
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-31 
Frau Behte       Tel: -78324 
Frau Krenz Tel: +49-5361-9-48869 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Test Specification PV 2034, 1998-10: 
 
Standard edited 
Previous issues 
1977-11; 1985-05; 1996-12; 1998-10 
1 
Scope 
This PV standard is used to determine the adhesion (peeling force) of 
 
laminated or back-molded planar materials, e.g. films, foam films, felt fabrics, carpets, foamed 
leatherette, upholstery materials and other knit fabrics (e.g. for roof/pillar lining) on backing 
materials in the case of finished items, 
 
self-adhesive sound absorber foils on dip-primed test sheets, 
 
self-adhesive felt materials on dip-primed test sheets, 
 
planar materials backed with PUR foam, e.g. films, sintered coatings, sprayed-on coatings with 
backing materials for finished parts. 
The PV is used for development samples, release tests and standard production monitoring tests. 
2 
Designation 
Peel test according to PV 2034 
3 
Requirements 
Requirements and deviations from the PV according to Technical Supply Specification or release. 
4 
Test method 
4.1 
Test equipment 
 
Roller bearing according to Figure 1. 
 
Universal test machine, e.g. Z010 from the Zwick company. 
 
Test panel of sheet steel Fe P04 according to EN 10130, wall thickness 2 mm, and dip-primed 
according to process condition; primer corresponding to material release ALE 072 007 from 
the process engineering department. Size: (170 x 55) mm. 
 
50-mm-wide pressure roller with a total weight of 500 g. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 


Page 2 
PV 2034: 2004-04 
 
 
 
Figure 1 – Roller bearing 
 
4.2 
Specimen preparation 
4.2.1 
Finished parts 
Specimens measuring 170 mm long by 50 mm wide are taken from largely flat areas of the finished 
parts. Approx. 50 mm of the laminated material is then manually separated from the backing 
(clamping length). 
Material to be 
pulled off 
Adhesive 
Ball-roller bearing 
Backing 
material 


Page 3 
PV 2034: 2004-04 
 
4.2.2 
Self-adhesive sound absorber foils 
Specimens measuring (170 x 50) mm are cut out of the self-adhesive material, and the backing 
paper is removed from the specimens over a length of 120 mm. 
Unless specified otherwise, the specimens are preheated for 30 minutes at a temperature of 
+30 °C in mechanically circulated air prior to bonding. 
The adhesive surface of the specimens is positioned flush with the end of the test panel. Unless a 
different procedure is specified, the specimen is then pressed on with the pressure roller at a speed 
of approx. 2 cm/s. 
4.2.3 
Number of specimens 
Unless a different quantity is required, at least five specimens must be measured for each test. 
For tests after aging, the specimens are used 30 minutes after removal from the respective 
test condition. 
4.3 
Conditioning 
The specimens must be conditioned for at least 24 h in a standard climate according to  
DIN 50014 – 23/50-2 prior to the test. 
4.4 
Procedure 
The prepared specimens are laid on the clamped roller bearing, and the free end is fixed in the 
clamp of the tensile test machine. 
The adhering material is pulled off the backing material at an angle of 90° and with a test speed of 
50 mm/minute until a length of 100 mm is reached. 
The load/displacement curve shall be recorded during the test using an automatic recording 
system. 
4.5 
Evaluation 
The first 30% and last 10% of the diagram (distance A) are not taken into account for determination 
of the decorative-layer adhesion or peel force (see Figure 2). 
The evaluation length (distance B) is divided into five equal parts with the aid of six grid lines. 
The resulting six intersecting points (p) are used for evaluation. 
Unless a different procedure is required, the peel force is specified for each specimen as the mean 
value  from the six individual values in “N/5 cm specimen width”. 
Alternatively the evaluation can also be performed using electronic equipment and the appropriate 
parameter sets. 
Premature tearing of the material under test or separation of the material outside the adhesive joint 
must also be evaluated. 


Page 4 
PV 2034: 2004-04 
 
 
 
Figure 2 - Schematic representation of the evaluation 
5 
Referenced standards*) 
DIN 50014 
Climates and their Technical Application; Standard Atmospheres 
DIN EN 10130 
Cold Rolled Low Carbon Steel Flat Products for Cold Forming – Technical 
Delivery Conditions 
                                                
*) 
In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
Distance A 
Force 
P = Intersecting points 
to be evaluated 
Evaluation length B 
Distance A 
Distance 
