# PV2046.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 87 3 
October 2002 
Liquid Sealing Compounds for Sealed  
Connections 
Leak Tightness Test 
PV 
2046 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
liquid sealing compound, sealed connection, leak tightness, anaerobic, silicone 
 
 
Page 1 of 4 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733) 
 
K-QS-31 
Dittmann 
Tel:-22392 
Frau Hager-Süß Tel: +49-5361-9-49035 
Sobanski 
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung einer Normenabteilung des Volkswagen Konzerns nicht gestattet. 
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung. 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 12.00 
1 
Scope 
This test standard is used to test sealed connections (e.g. on flanges) established using liquid 
sealing compounds based on diacrylic acid ester, anaerobically hardening, and silicone as a 
function of temperature, different surface qualities and fluids such as engine oil and emulsion 
residues. 
The test device with sealing bead applied to glass pane permits the comparative testing of sealing 
compounds, even under static mechanical loads.  
The necessary surface pressure is produced by means of a variable screw gap; the tightening 
torques can also be varied. 
In addition to the standardized test sequences, variable test preparations and test procedures are 
also possible. Depending on the respective production process, combinations within the variable 
test sequences and with the standardized test sequences are permissible and shall be specified in 
the test report. 
2 
Designation 
Leak tightness according to PV 2046 
3 
Requirements 
Selection and combination of the test conditions as well as definition of the material and sealing 
composite characteristic data according to TL standard or drawing. 
4 
Test 
4.1 
Test device 
4.1.1 
Individual components 
The test device components shall be manufactured according to design drawings. 
These drawings are available for viewing from Mr. Dittmann, K-QS-31. 
The following aluminum alloys are used as materials according to TL 023 / DIN EN 1706: 
1. 
AlSi6Cu4 for sealing compounds based on diacrylic acid ester, anaerobically hardening, 
according to TL 526 15. 
The Cu content must be ≥ 3 %. 
2. 
AlSi10Mg or AlSi6Cu4 for sealing compounds based on silicone according to TL 526 16. 
Deviating alloy compositions are to be noted in the test report. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
PV 2046: 2002-10 
 
4.1.1.1 Sealing washers 
The selected shapes and roughnesses are to be noted in the test report. 
4.1.1.1.1 
Geometric layout of the sealing surfaces 
Three categories apply: 
A 
Sealing washer with internal chamfer 30°/depth 2 mm, or 45°/depth1 mm 
B 
Sealing washer A with center bead 1.5 mm x 0.8 mm 
C 
Sealing washer without internal chamfer/center bead 
4.1.1.1.2 
Roughness of the sealing surface 
Two ranges apply: 
I 
Roughness Rz (2 to 12) µm, Pt(max) 12 µm, Wt < Rz  
(anaerobically hardening sealing compound) 
II 
Roughness Rz (8 to 25) µm, Pt (max) 25 µm, Wt < Rz 
(silicone sealing compound) 
4.2 
Test preparation 
Test preparation shall preferably take place in the standard climate according to DIN 50 014 – 
23/50-2. 
4.2.1 
"Standard" preparation 
First use: the sealing surfaces are cleaned using ethyl alcohol. A lint-free cotton cloth shall be used 
for this purpose. 
Repeat use: any sealing compound residues are first removed from the sealing surfaces. A plastic 
scraper shall be used for this purpose. The sealing surfaces are then cleaned using a solvent 
mixture based on alcohols and methyl ethyl ketone, for example gasket remover 29-0984 
(unproductive process material) or Loctite 7200. A lint-free cotton cloth shall be used for this 
purpose. 
Deviations in the respective cleaning method shall be indicated in the test report. 
The sealing compounds are then applied; the manufacturers' instructions shall be followed and the 
correct applicators for the respective sealing compound used. 
The test device is mounted using the fixing pins (applying a tightening torque of 8 Nm (screw M6)) 
and aged in the standard climate according to DIN 50 014 – 23/50-2 for 1 hour. 
4.2.2 
"Variable" preparation (simulated production processes) 
The selected preparation variants shall be specified in the test report. 
4.2.2.1 Effect of fluids 
The sealing rings are wetted with different detergents/emulsions/engine oils and then dried for over 
60 min at +60 °C in mechanically circulated air. 


Page 3 
PV 2046: 2002-10 
 
4.2.2.2 Effect of the time of use on immediate leak tightness 
Variation of the time between application of the sealing compound and setting of the threaded joint 
between 5 – 10 – 20 – 60 min. Filling with the respective fluid, for example engine oil. 
4.2.2.3 Setting the threaded joints 
In variable number (varying screw gap) and application of the standard tightening torque of 8 Nm 
and/or varying tightening torques per screw. 
4.3 
Test procedure 
4.3.1 
"Standard" procedure 
The prepared test device is completely filled with the respective fluid, for example engine oil. 
Complete deaeration is achieved by turning and tipping the device. 
An ascending pipe 100 mm in length is screwed into the filling opening. 
The sealing compounds are allowed to vulcanize/set; 24 h for anaerobically hardening sealing 
compound, 96 h for silicone sealing compound. 
Anaerobically hardening sealing compound: age for 1,500 h at +130 °C in mechanically circulated 
air. 
 
Silicone sealing compound: age for 1500 h at +150 °C in mechanically circulated air. 
A visual inspection for leaks with a rising pressure range of (0.5 to 5) bar is performed every 250 h. 
After reconditioning in the standard climate according to DIN 50 014 – 23/50-2 for 16 h, emptying of 
the fluid and removal of the threaded joint, the test device is ready for determination of the torsional 
torques and for further visual evaluation. 
4.3.2 
"Variable" procedure (simulated production processes) 
The selected test procedure shall be specified in the test report. 
The prepared test device is completely filled with the respective fluid, for example engine oil. An 
ascending pipe 100 mm in length is screwed into the filling opening. 
The tightening torque of 8 Nm or varying tightening torques are applied to each screw. 
Consistency test (cold test) of the unhardened sealing compound 5 – 10 – 30 – 60 min after 
application using a magnetic stirrer for 2 min. 
Intermediate aging in the standard climate DIN 50 014 - 23/50-2 for 24 h. 
Aging for 1,500 h at +130 °C / +150 °C in mechanically circulated air. 
A pressure and leakage test is performed every 250 h with a rising pressure range of (0.5 to 5) bar. 
After reconditioning in the standard climate according to DIN 50 014 – 23/50-2 for 16 h, emptying of 
the fluid and removal of the threaded joint, the test device is ready for determination of the shear 
torques and for further visual evaluation. 
Preparation as for section 4.2.2., followed by pressure and leakage testing at (0.2 and 0.5) bar and 
concurrent consistency test (cold test) of the unhardened sealing compounds using a magnetic 
stirrer for 2 min. 


Page 4 
PV 2046: 2002-10 
 
4.4 
Evaluation 
4.4.1 
Visual evaluation 
An evaluation of the outer sealing edges with regard to leakage of fluids shall be performed after 
every 250 h (pressure and leakage test) during oil aging at +130 °C or +150 °C for 1,500 h. 
Once the torsional torques have been determined, the sealing surfaces shall be evaluated with 
respect to the breaking structure, gelling, swelling and media creeping past the sealing compound. 
4.4.2 
Determining the torsional torque 
Using a torsion machine, for example from Schenck-Trebel, and a torsion speed of 5°/min, 
introduce the torsional torque without radial stress, rotate until the sealed connection loosens 
(silicone sealing compound) or rotate until the specified shear torque is achieved and then release 
load (anaerobically hardening sealing compound). 
4.4.3 
Rheology of fluids 
The rheological properties of the engine oil or cooling water used in the test shall also be 
determined in order to establish the possible effect of a sealing compound. 
5 
Referenced standards 
TL 023 
Aluminum Cast Alloy; Material Requirements 
TL 526 15 
Liquid Sealing Compound Based on Diacrylic Acid Ester, Anaerobically 
Hardening; Material and Sealing Composite Requirements 
TL 526 16 
Liquid Sealing Compound Based on Silicone; Material and Sealing Composite 
Requirements 
DIN 50 014 
Climates and their Technical Application; Standard Atmospheres 
DIN EN 1706 
Aluminum and Aluminum Alloys – Castings – Chemical Composition and 
Mechanical Properties 
