# PV3-3-3.pdf

 
Group Standard 
PV 3.3.3
Issue 2007-09
Class. No.: 
57650 
Descriptors:  
paint, varnish, scratch resistance, automatic car wash, Amtec-Kistler method, car wash lab apparatus 
 
Check standard for current issue prior to usage. The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. Numerical 
notation acc. to ISO practice.  
Page 1 of 3 
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature. 
Technical Responsibility 
Standards 
 
P1O  Reinhard Alberts 
P1O/D Eckhard Bricke 
P1O/D  Katharina Gallenkemper    
Phone: +49-5361-9-72122 
EKTC/4  Jürgen Wiesner 
Phone: +49-5361-9-29064 
EKTC 
Manfred Terlinden 
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior permission of a Standards department within the Volkswa-
gen Group. 
Contract partners shall obtain the standard only through the B2B supplier platform www.vwgroupsupply.com. 
© VOLKSWAGEN AG 
 
vwnorm-2007-07 
 
 
 
Paints and Varnishes 
Scratch Resistance Testing of Clear Coats 
 
Previous issues 
PV 3.3.3: 2001-09, 2006-07 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Test Specification PV 3.3.3: 2006-07: 
─ 
Evaluation methods added 
─ 
Referenced documents updated 
1 
Scope 
This standard contains additional specifications to be applied when testing scratch resistance ac-
cording to DIN EN ISO 20566. 
2 
Description 
Scratch resistance according to PV 3.3.3 
3 
Test method 
The test is carried out acc. to DIN EN ISO 20566 using the car wash lab apparatus made by Am-
tec-Kistler GmbH. The operating manual of the device and the applicable work instructions must be 
observed. 
It is essential to recognize that this method cannot be used to determine reliable absolute values as 
the age of the brush has a considerable influence on the scratching results. 
The results can only be compared to reference material tested at the same time. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
Issue PV 3.3.3: 2007-09 
 
In addition, the following deviations from the standard must be considered: 
─ 
Washing suspension (Section 4.1 of DIN EN ISO 20566: 2007-01)  
The washing suspension consists of 1,5 g of quartz powder (Dorsilit® 10000 made by Dorfner, 
Hirschau, telephone: +49 (0) 9622-82-0) with an average grain size d50 of 19 µm per liter of 
deionized water (DI water). 
 
The water temperature must be between 18 °C and 28 °C. A constant temperature level of 25 
°C, for example, allows for an improved repeatability.  
NOTE: Tap water can also be used instead of DI water as long as no inter-instrumental com-
parison is carried out. 
─ 
Test plates (Section 6 of DIN EN ISO 20566: 2007-01) 
 
Unless otherwise agreed upon, the test plates and reference plates are made from sheet steel 
with original paint structure, size (290 x 120 x 0,8) mm (body panel sheet steel). 
 
Solid black paint is to be preferably used as a base coat. 
 
Testing in the car wash lab apparatus is to be carried out only after conditioning of the plates 
once the coating samples are applied. To this end, the plates are conditioned for 1 day at 60 
°C and then for another day at standard climate acc. to DIN EN 23270. 
─ 
Test procedure and evaluation (Sections 7 and 8 of DIN EN ISO 20566: 2007-01) 
 
Prior to testing, the initial gloss values at 20° acc. to DIN EN ISO 2813 are to be documented. 
The applicable value is the mean value calculated from nine values measured transverse to 
the expected scratching direction. 
 
(Note: haze is not applicable as a measuring quantity.) 
 
A test run consisting of 10 double strokes is carried out without test plates.  
Then the test plates are subjected to 10 double strokes each. 
 
After loading, the test plates are rinsed with cold DI water in order to remove quartz powder re-
sidues. 
 
Then the plates are carefully dried using a non-scratching paper towel and cleaned with a mic-
rofiber cloth soaked in petroleum spirit in order to remove the abraded bristle material without 
residues.  
Within 2 hours after drying, the residual gloss is then measured at 20° acc. to DIN EN ISO 
2813, transverse to the scratching direction. In the homogeneous area of the test plate, the 
mean value is determined from nine individual measurements. At least 2 test plates per sam-
ple are to be measured.  
The specimens are aged for 2 hours at 60 °C in order to evaluate the reflow behavior. After 
cooling to room temperature, the residual gloss is determined again. 
─ 
Test report (Section 10 of DIN EN ISO 20566: 2007-01) 
 
In order to consider the degree of wear of the brushes, the test report must also contain actual 
and initial measured values of the reference panels in addition to the values of gloss and resi-
dual gloss after loading and reflow. 
─ 
Cross-check of car wash lab apparatus (Section A.1 of DIN EN ISO 20566: 2007-01) 
 
With each test, a reference plate must also be loaded in parallel which always remains in the 
same position on the washing table, in order to check the washing brushes.  
The brush must be exchanged after about 50 h of load. 
 
Note: It is recommended to prepare a sufficient number of reference plates for the test duration 
from standard production material. If new reference plates are required, their characteristics 
must come as close as possible to those of the existent panels. Deviations must be considered 
and documented.  
As far as this is required by the particular task, deviations from this standard are possible subject to 
documentation of the changes made. 
4 
Evaluation 
The evaluation as compared to the reference values is done by calculating differences or quotients, 
depending on the agreement with the entity granting the release. 


Page 3 
Issue PV 3.3.3: 2007-09 
 
4.1 
Evaluation based on calculation of differences 
The following values must be given: 
─ 
Initial gloss of sample GA 
─ 
Residual gloss after load GE 
─ 
Residual gloss after reflow GR 
─ 
Gloss difference of sample GD sample = GA sample – GE sample 
─ 
Gloss difference of reference GD reference = GA reference – GE reference 
─ 
Gloss loss compared to reference GV reference = GD reference – GD sample 
Interpretation: 
─ 
Comparative values for loss of gloss compared to reference GV reference = 0 
 
Sample and reference plate are equal regarding their resistance to automatic car wash treat-
ment. 
─ 
Comparative values for loss of gloss compared to reference GV reference > 0 
 
The sample has a higher resistance to automatic car wash treatment than the reference. 
─ 
Comparative values for loss of gloss compared to reference GV reference < 0 
 
The sample has a lower resistance to automatic car wash treatment than the reference. 
4.2 
Evaluation based on calculation of quotients 
The following values must be given: 
─ 
Initial gloss of sample GA 
─ 
Residual gloss after load GE 
─ 
Residual gloss after reflow GR 
─ 
Percentage of residual gloss after load GE [%] = (GE *100)/ GA 
─ 
Percentage of reflow after load GR [%] = (GR *100)/ GA 
─ 
Corresponding values for the reference plate GE reference and GR reference 
─ 
Comparative values for scratch resistance 
 
VE= GE [%]/GE reference [%] and VR= GR [%]/GR reference [%] 
Interpretation: 
─ 
Comparative values for scratch resistance VE = 1  
 
Sample and reference plate are equal regarding their resistance to automatic car wash treat-
ment. 
─ 
Comparative values for scratch resistance VE < 1  
 
The sample has a lower resistance to automatic car wash treatment than the reference. 
─ 
Comparative values for scratch resistance VE > 1  
 
The sample has a higher resistance to automatic car wash treatment than the reference. 
5 
Referenced standards 
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary for its application. In this Section, 
terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
DIN EN 23270 
Paints, Varnishes and their Raw Materials; Temperatures and Humidities for 
Conditioning and Testing 
DIN EN ISO 2813 
Coating Materials; Determining the Reflectometer Value of Coatings (Exclu-
ding Metallic Coatings) below 20°, 60° and 85° 
DIN EN ISO 20566 Paints and varnishes – Determination of the Scratch Resistance of a Coating 
System Using a Laboratory Car-Wash 
