# PV3-14-7.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 65 0 
May 2003 
Paints and Varnishes 
Test of Resistance to Stone Impact  
according to DIN 55 996-1 
PV 
3.14.7 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: color, varnish, resistance to stone impact, paint adhesion, multiple impact method 
 
Page  of  
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
PM-V 
Christen 
Tel: -73399 
Richter 
I/PG-61 
Woll 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-929064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 12.00 
Preface 
The test method described in DIN 55 996-1 is based on a draft elaborated in the VDA (German 
Association of the Automotive Industry) for stone impact resistance testing, which was used in 
Volkswagen AG standards in the form of Test Specifications PV 3.14.3 and PV 1213. The use of 
the above-mentioned DIN standard provides for the successive replacement of the VDA test. 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to PV 3.14.7, 2001-04: 
− Adhesive tape material changed 
Previous issues 
2001-04 
1 
Scope 
This standard contains additional specifications to be observed when testing the resistance to 
stone impact according to DIN 55 996-1. 
For specific applications, such as standard production monitoring, it is possible to work “on the 
basis” of this test standard and to agree a reduced report scope, for example. 
2 
Designation 
Resistance to stone impact according to PV 3.14.7 
3 
Test method 
The test is performed according to DIN 55 966-1 using the Erichsen multi stone impact test device, 
model 508. The owner's manual for the device and the applicable work instructions shall be 
observed. 
The following specifications shall also be observed: 
− Method B (Section 7.3 of DIN 55 996-1) is preferred for all superstructures. If method A or C is 
to be used, this shall be agreed and indicated separately. 
− The test report (Section 10 of the DIN standard) must also contain information on the test 
equipment used. 
− The evaluation is performed visually using original reference pictures (A3 reference pictures can 
be acquired for internal purposes from PM-V or K-QS-31, see Section A.1). For external 
purposes, reference pictures can be obtained from Beuth-Verlag. 
− The main separating plane shall be indicated. Chipping down to the substrate shall be assessed 
separately. Note: In the case of steel substrates, chipping down to the substrate can be 
visualized and assessed better by immersing the damaged surfaces in a CuSO4 sulfuric acid 
solution (5 weight per cent) or a 10% HCl and CuSO4 solution for zinc-coated surfaces. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
PV 3.14.7: 2003-05 
 
− In order to enable a clear differentiation between the measurement data of the DIN method 
(characteristic value range of 0.0 to 5.0) and that of the VDA method (characteristic 
value 0 to 10), the characteristic values according to the DIN standard are generally indicated 
with decimal places. 
 
For internal purposes, e.g., to stipulate the characteristic values, a conversion table of 
characteristic values can be obtained from PM-V. 
− The device shall be inspected every three months according to Appendix A of DIN 55 996-1, 
and the inspection shall be documented (see Section A.2, Sample calibration certificate form). 
Irrespective of this, it is recommended that you arrange for the manufacturer to perform basic 
maintenance and calibration on a yearly basis. 
− Only the following bombardment material may be used: 
Hard cast blasting material, “Diamant” rough edged: GH-K, grain class 4-5 mm. 
Source of supply: 
Eisenwerke Würth GmbH + Co. KG 
Post box 1155 
74173 Friedrichshall, Germany 
Tel.: +49-7136-98980 
Fax: +49-7136-25480 
− The following adhesive tape is used: 
Tesa type 4657, 75 to 80 mm wide, 
Manufacturer Tesa AG, 
VW Mat. no. AKL 437 075 
Referenced documents 1) 
DIN 55 996-1 
Paints and Varnishes – Stone Chip Resistance Test for Coatings – Part 1: 
Multi Impact Test 
 
                                                
1) In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
 


Page 3 
PV 3.14.7: 2003-05 
 
 
Appendix A (informative) 
A.1 
Reduced representation of the A3 reference pictures for internal use 
 
Characteristic value 2.0 
or damaged area 5.5% 
Characteristic value 1.5 
and/or damaged surface 2.5% 
Characteristic value 3.5 
or damaged area 29.0% 
Characteristic value 4.0 
or damaged area 43.8% 
Characteristic value 1.0 
or damaged area 1.0% 
Characteristic value 3.0 
or damaged area 19.2% 
Characteristic value 0.5 
or damaged area 0.2% 
Characteristic value 2.5 
or damaged area 10.7% 
Characteristic value 5.0 
or damaged area 81.3% 
Characteristic value 4.5 
or damaged area 58.3% 
Evaluation of Resistance to Stone Impact 
 
Characteristic value scale acc. to DIN 55996-1 
 
 
 
 
 
Source of supply for internal use: 
Volkswagen AG, PM-5 Central Process Engineering, Post box 1617, 
38436 Wolfsburg, Germany, Tel. +49-5361-9-73399 


Page 4 
PV 3.14.7: 2003-05 
 
A.2 
Sample calibration certificate form 
 
Calibration certificate of the Erichsen test device, 
model 508 for stone impact simulation 
 
Test plan: regular testing according to DIN 55966-1/ Appendix A 
 
 
Unit number: 
 
 
User position: 
 
 
User: 
 
 
Tester 
Date 
Visual 
test 
Granulate
mass 
(g) 
Pressure
(kPa) 
Bombard-
ment time
(sec) 
Evaluation 
of bombardment 
picture 
TARGET
 
3-monthly  
check 
OK/  
not OK 
500 + 20 200 ± 10 10 ± 2 
Comparison 
with reference  
OK 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
