# PV3-10-3.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 65 0
December 2000
Paints and varnishes
Test of resistance to caustic solutions
PV
3.10.3
Konzernnorm
Descriptors: paint, varnish, lye, coating varnish
Continued on page 2
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
PM-5
Bloecks
Tel:-3 67 61
Bricke
Holland
I/PG-61
Kummer
Wiesner
Tel: +49-5361-929064
Sobanski
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung der Volkswagen AG, EZTN, nicht gestattet.
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung.
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of the Volkswagen Group, EZTN, Standard Department.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
VOLKSWAGEN AG
Form FE 41 - 10.99
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to the August 1986 issue:
-  Standard has been adapted to the latest state of the art.
Previous issues
First issue: 1975-12
Last change: 1986-08
1 
Scope
This standard is to be used within the Group. It describes a method for testing the acid resistance
of coating varnishes, which are considered exterior weather-resistant.
2 
Designation
Resistance to caustic solutions acc. to PV 3.10.3.
3 
Test procedure
3.1 
Principle
The coating varnish surface is stressed using a sodium lye solution for the purpose of simulating
the actual effects of lye and of evaluating the gloss and color stability. A temperature, which is ac-
tually reached under sun radiation and in areas due to engine heat, is taken in consideration.
3.2 
Reagents and auxiliary equipment
Sodium lye; 250 ml of 1 N sodium lye (Titrisol) is diluted with distilled water to 1 l and kept in a
plastic flask.
Graduated pipette 10 ml.
Stopwatch.
Precision thermometer.
Round steel cover plate, diameter 65 mm, approx. 20 mm thick, corrosion resistant, approx. weight
500 g.
PVC ring with groove, inside diameter 53 mm, height 15 mm, thickness 5 mm.
Petroleum ether, 80/110° C.
Permanently elastic sealing tape, e.g., Dekaplast D2.
Heating plate, e.g., water-heated and thermostat-controlled (see PV 3.16.4), or “Präzitherm” heat-
ing plate made by Kleinfeld, Hanover.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2
PV 3.10.3: 2000-12
3.3 
Procedure
A surface of approx. 20 cm² is stressed with 10 ml 1% sodium lye for one hour at 70° C.
The test is performed according to PV 3.16.4, sections 6 to 8 as relevant.
4 
Referenced standards
PV 3.16.4
Paints and varnishes; acid resistance test
