# PV3-15-3.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 65 0 
October 2004 
Paints and Varnishes 
Testing of Corrosion Resistance  
of Cathodic Dip-Painted Coatings on Zinc-Coated Sheet 
PV 
3.15.3 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
paint, varnish, corrosion, cathodic dip-paint, corrosion resistance, sheet steel, 
zinc-coated, weekly standard-production test batches 
 
Page 1 of 2 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
PWP-L 
Frau Finkenstädt 
Tel: 45529 
Dr. Wilgeroth 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
1 
Scope 
This standard applies for Volkswagen AG (Volkswagen brand). It details a procedure for corrosion 
testing of cathodic dip-painted corrosion protection layers on hot-dip zinc-coated or electrolytically 
zinc-coated sheet steels under static load resulting from salt, humidity and temperature. This 
procedure is used for release and standard production testing and evaluation of corrosion behavior 
or corrosion protection measures during production (so-called weekly standard-production test 
batches). 
2 
Designation 
Corrosion resistance according to Test Specification PV 3.15.3 
3 
Test method 
3.1 
Principle 
The test is conducted using cyclically changing combinations of various climatic and/or 
corrosive loads. 
One test cycle comprises 
─ 
1 h salt spray fog test according to DIN 50021-SS, 
─ 
15 h humid aging at elevated temperature according to DIN 50017-KK at (40 ± 3) °C and 
100% humidity, 
─ 
8 h standard climate aging according to DIN 50014-23/50-2 (including cooling-off phase). 
3.2 
Specimen preparation 
Test sheets are prepared for corrosion testing according to PV 3.17.1. The scribe applied to the 
coatings must penetrate through to the metallic base material. 
3.3 
Test stand 
Single or alternate devices may be used for the tests. Specifications according to DIN 50014, 
DIN 50017 and DIN 50021 shall be adhered to in all cases. 
3.4 
Evaluation 
After 15 cycles, the test sheets are evaluated according to the following criteria: 
─ 
rust creep according to PV 3.17.1, 
─ 
adhesion loss D according to DIN EN ISO 4628-8, 
─ 
degree of rusting (surface and edge rust) according to DIN EN ISO 4628-3. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
PV 3.15.3: 2004-10 
 
4 
Referenced standards*) 
PV 3.17.1 
Paints and Varnishes; Determination of Corrosion Resistance after 
Mechanical Damage 
DIN 50014 
Climates and Their Technical Application, Standard Atmospheres 
DIN 50017 
Atmospheres and Their Technical Application; Condensation Water Test 
Atmospheres 
DIN 50021 
Spray Tests with Different Sodium Chloride Solutions 
DIN EN ISO 4628-3 
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings – 
Designation of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform 
Changes in Appearance – Part 3: Assessment of Degree of Rusting 
DIN EN ISO 4628-8 
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings; Designation 
of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform Changes in 
Appearance – Part 8: Evaluation of Corrosion Around a Scribe 
                                                
*) 
In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
