# PV3344.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 22 1 
June 2004 
Engine Oil 
Elastomer Compatibility Tests 
PV 
3344 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
engine oil, elastomer compatibility test, engine, oil, factory-fill engine oil, 
service fuel-economy engine oil 
 
Page 1 of 2 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-31 
Schulz 
Tel:-24365 
Frau Hager-Süß Tel: +49-5361-9-49035 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Test Specification PV 3344, 1998-12: 
 
Test method modified 
Previous issues 
1992-06, 1997-06, 1998-12 
1 
Scope 
Sample and standard production monitoring of factory-fill and service fuel-economy engine oils. 
2 
Designation 
Elastomer compatibility test according to PV 3344 
3 
Requirements 
The requirements valid in each case can be found in the corresponding supply specifications, that 
is in the Technical Supply Specification and in the Volkswagen standard (TL standard and VW 
standard). 
4 
Test method 
4.1 
Elastomers 
Sheet material with thickness (2.0 ± 0.2) mm; manufacturing date and flow direction shall be 
indicated on the sample sheets. 
Test material stored according to DIN 7716. 
Usable up to 2 years after manufacturing. 
Sources of supply: 
Parker-Hannifin GmbH, Packing Division, Post box 1641, 74 306 Bietigheim-Bissingen, Germany, 
or EVT Co., Industriestraße 19, D-68519 Viernheim, Germany. 
 
FPM standard reference elastomer, designated RE-FPM 1 (previously FPM-AK6), 
 
AEM test elastomer, designated RE-AEM 1 (previously VW-VAMAC test), 
 
ACM test elastomer, designated RE ACM-1 (previously VW-ACM test). 
 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
PV 3344: 2004-06 
 
4.2 
Specimen preparation 
Five S3A standard specimens according to DIN 53504 per elastomer type are punched out of the 
specimen parts in flow direction (deviating from this, six standard specimens are required for FKM 
elastomer). The standard specimens are measured and, if necessary, weighed to determine the 
initial values. The FKM-AK6 elastomer must first be conditioned for 24 h at 150 °C in a mechanical 
circulation oven (DIN 53508) and then conditioned in a desiccator. 
4.3 
Specimen aging 
The specimens prepared according to Section 4.2 are aged in the oil to be tested according to 
PV 3323 in conformity with the respective supply specifications (also with respect to aging duration 
and aging time). 
Aging is carried out in a closed container in a natural convection oven or mechanical circulation 
oven according to DIN 53508, but with a temperature deviation of ± 1 K. The use of a heating bath 
with the same temperature accuracy is also permissible. 
During the aging periods, the ambient temperature of the specimens is to be recorded. 
4.4 
Evaluation 
The specimens are removed from the oven after the exposure period has elapsed. 
The specimens remain in the test fluid for 30 min and are then completely freed of adhering oil 
using cloth/cellulose paper, acclimatized for (60 ± 10) min in standard climate according to 
DIN 50014-23/50-2 and evaluated. 
The following shall be specified: 
 
Range and median; standard deviation if necessary. 
The results for the changes in tensile strength and elongation at break are to be calculated from the 
median values. 
During the tensile test, observe whether any edge cracks form on the specimens (only FKM). 
Any occurrence is to be noted in the test log and classified as follows: 
 
None, slight, noticeable. 
5 
Referenced standards*) 
PV 3323 
Test Vessels and Specimen Holders for Aging Standard Specimens 
DIN 7527-6 
Steel Forgings; Machining Allowances and Permissible Variations for Open-
Die Forged Bars 
DIN 7716 
Rubber Products; Requirements for Storage, Cleaning and Maintenance 
DIN 50014 
Climates and their Technical Application; Standard Atmospheres 
DIN 53504 
Testing of Rubber; Determination of Tensile Strength at Break, Tensile Stress 
at Yield, Elongation at Break and Stress Values in a Tensile Test 
DIN 53508 
Testing of Rubber; Accelerated Ageing 
                                                
*) In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
