# PV3965.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 57603 
April 2006 
Decorative Surfaces on and in the Vehicle 
Visual Color Matching according to DIN EN ISO 3668 
PV 
3965 
Konzernnorm 
Descriptors: 
colorimetry, interior trim, color difference, paint, color, surface, decorative 
Continued on page 2 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (E2TC, 1733) 
 
K-GQL-1/3 Meier Tel.: +49-5361-9-36271 Frau Dr. Schramm 
Dr. Schilling 
Wiesner 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-29064 
Terlinden 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior permission of a Standards Department within the Volkswagen 
Group. Contract partners shall obtain the standard only through the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 01.06 
1 
Scope 
This standard applies to all decorative surfaces on and in the vehicle, irrespective of whether they 
are evaluated according to VW 50190 or VW 50195. It contains additional specifications to be 
observed when visually matching the color according to DIN EN ISO 3668. 
2 
Description 
Visual matching according to PV 3965 
3 
Test method 
The color of surfaces is visually matched according to DIN EN ISO 3668. 
In addition, the following specifications are to be observed. 
3.1 
Types of test lights for the interior and the exterior 
The test is performed in the test light types D65 (average artificial daylight) and F11 (artificial warm 
white light). If required and agreed upon by the test stations involved, more types of test lights may 
be used. 
3.2 
Matching exterior surfaces 
3.2.1 
Individual components and test plates under laboratory conditions 
When evaluating effect colors, the observation and lighting direction is to be varied. For the 
evaluation, the test angle of the lighting and observation directions are to be aligned based on DIN 
6175-2. 
If flat test plates are matched, the test arrangement and the test sequence according to PV 3.1.6 
are to be adhered to. 
3.2.2 
Complete vehicle 
In individual cases the test stations involved may agree on a test arrangement on the complete 
vehicle with defined lighting and observation directions. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
Numerical notation according to ISO practice (see VW 01000). 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
PV 3965: 2006-04 
3.3 
Matching interior surfaces 
3.3.1 
Individual components and test plates under laboratory conditions 
In order to test the plausibility of measured color deviations, the specimens are to be arranged at a 
test angle of 45°. For the evaluation of effect col ors the specifications of section 3.2.1 are to be 
adhered to. 
When evaluating materials sensitive to brushing (e. g. velour carpet) the specimens are to be 
evaluated in uniform brushing direction. 
3.3.2 
Complete vehicle 
The evaluation may be performed with and without vehicle glazing. Preferably, the evaluation is to 
be performed with vehicle glazing (customer’s situation). 
If required, the test stations involved may agree on a test arrangement in the interior of the vehicle 
with defined lighting and observation directions. 
3.4 
Test report 
Color differences are evaluated according to Table 1 (based on the fixed evaluation scale of DIN 
EN ISO 3668). 
Table 1 
Indicator 
Evaluation 
Decision 
0 
no perceptible difference 
OK 
1 
very small, i. e. just perceptible difference 
OK 
2 
small, but perceptible difference 
cond. OK 
3 
moderate difference 
cond. OK 
4 
considerable difference 
not OK 
5 
very big difference 
not OK 
With angle-specific color effects, these are to be specified based on the test angles specified in 
DIN 6175-2. Examples: 
─
close to glossiness 
corresponds to an effect angle of approx. 25° 
─
plan view 
 
corresponds to an effect angle of approx. 45° 
─
angled view 
 
corresponds to an effect angle of approx. 75° 
4 
Referenced standards1
PV 3.1.6 
 Colors and Paints; Visual Fine-Tuning/Batch Acceptance of Effect 
Paintwork 
DIN 6175-2 
Color Tolerances for Automobile Paint Coatings – Part 2: Goniochromatic 
 
Paints 
DIN EN ISO 3668 
Paints and Varnishes – Visual Comparison of the Color of Paints 
                                                
1 In this Section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
