# PV3904.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 55 00 0
February 2000
Interior Trim Materials
Flame Retardance
PV
3904
Konzernnorm
Descriptors: Materials for Vehicle Interiors, Flame Retardance
Continued on page 2
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
K-GQ-31
Frau Salzmann   Tel:-2 42 02
Bembenek
Frau Hager-Süß Tel: +49-5361-949035
Sobanski
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung der Volkswagen AG, EZTN, nicht gestattet.
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung.
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of the Volkswagen Group, EZTN, Standard Department.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Form FE 41 - 10.99
Preface
PV 3904 became invalid with the 02/98 issue. The PV was reissued in slightly revised form after
the Group reported a need for this document.
Previous Issues
First issue: 02/1972
Last change: 12/1996
1 
Scope
This standard defines the test of the burning behavior of materials for vehicle interiors that fall un-
der US regulation 571.302.
If an increase in the combustion speed is seen based on the composition of the flame-retardant
vehicle interior trim materials or the form of application of the flame-retardant additives with artificial
aging using hot, humid climate, light, cold or cleaning materials, it will be necessary to add aging
procedures to this testing specification.
2 
Designation
Example in the TL:
Burning behavior
acc. to TL 1010
per US regulation 571.302
(if required in drawing and/or release)
Note:
For materials for which aging has no recognizable effect on the burning behavior, based on the
corresponding experience, the remark “Test after aging per PV 3904 not required” should be
added to the affected drawing and/or TL after the requirement "Burning Behavior per TL 1010".
3 
Test
3.1 
Test Apparatus
Mechanical circulation oven ( 80 ± 2 )° C
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS (Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen!/Check standard for current issue prior to usage)


Page 2
PV 3904: 2000-02
3.2 
Test Sequence
3.2.1 
General
3.2.1.1 Sampling
The specimens must be taken per US Regulation 571.302. Direction of the fastest combustion
speed.
3.2.1.2 Aging
Before the combustibility test, the following must be done:
7 days aging in dry heat (80 ± 2)° C followed by
48 h aging at (23 ± 2)° C and (50 ± 5) % relative humidity.
3.2.2 
Testing the Sub-Padding and the Visible Cover Materials in the Assembly
3.2.2.1 Sampling
Standard production or appropriately simulated assembly.
Dimensions: approx. 50 x 100 mm long on edge and max. 13 mm thick.
3.2.2.2 Aging
7 days aging in dry heat (80 ± 2)° C.
4 
Referenced Standards
US Regulation 571.302
German Regulation No. 302, Combustibility of Materials for Vehicle Inte-
riors
