# PV3960.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 55 10 4
June 2004
Dashboard
Indentation Depth Measurement (Hardness)
using a Universal Testing Machine
PV
3960
Konzernnorm
Descriptors:
dashboard, indentation depth measurement, hardness, determination of
hardness
Page 1 of 2
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733)
K-QS-31
Palm
Tel: -35062
Peterka
Frau Krenz
Tel: +49-5361-9-48869
Sobanski
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 01.03
1 
Scope
This test standard describes a procedure for determining the hardness for standard production
monitoring, development samples and first samples of dashboards.
2 
Designation
Indentation depth measurement according to Test Specification PV 3960
3 
Definitions
Indentation depth measurement:
Indentation depth measurement represents a measure of the hardness of the dashboard as
perceived by the customer.
4 
Requirements
Requirements and deviations from the test procedure according to the Technical Supply
Specification and/or release.
5 
Test method
5.1 
Test equipment and auxiliary equipment
─ 
template (70 x 70) mm for specimens to be cut out,
─ 
ribbon saw to cut out specimens,
─ 
universal tension/compression testing machine, e.g. Z010 by company Zwick ,
─ 
counterpressure punch (flat) ∅ 25 mm,
─ 
hemispherical indentor ∅ 19 mm.
5.2 
Specimens
Unless specified otherwise, each test requires five specimens to be marked on the dashboard
using a template (sampling locations according to drawing and/or specification).
The marked locations (specimens) are to be cut out of the dashboard completely using a ribbon
saw.
5.3 
Conditioning
The specimens shall be aged for 48 h in the DIN 50014 – 23/50-2 standard climate.
The English translation is believed to be accurate.
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2
PV 3960: 2004-06
5.4 
Test procedure
A universal tension/compression testing machine, e.g. Z010 by Zwick, is required for the test
procedure. The prepared specimens are placed in the center of the counterpressure punch with the
substrate side facing downwards. The specimen is vertically loaded by the indentor with a preload
of 0.1 N. After preload has been established, the specimen is loaded up to a testing force of 25 N.
The test rate is 50 mm/min. The complete load/displacement curve is recorded during the test
using a recording system.
Schematic for universal testing machine
6 
Evaluation
Indentation depth is stated in mm for a testing force of 25 N and recorded by the testing machine’s
recording system.
Example:
indentation depth/25 N: 1.75 mm
All individual values are stated. An average value shall be derived from all five individual values.
7 
Referenced standards*)
DIN 50014
Climates and their Technical Application; Standard Atmospheres
                                                
*) In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
spindle
load cell
indentor
specimen
counterpressure punch
