# PV3952.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 55 10 4
August 2002
Plastic Interior Components
Testing of Scratch Resistance
PV
3952
Konzernnorm
Descriptors:
plastic, interior, component, scratch resistance, crosscut test, test
Page 1 of 4
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
K-QS-31
Frau Radon
Tel:-31886
Frau Hager-Süß Tel: +49-5361-9-49035
Sobanski
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung einer Normenabteilung des Volkswagen Konzerns nicht gestattet.
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung.
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 12.00
1 
Scope
This test standard serves to determine the scratch resistance of painted and unpainted plastic inte-
rior components. A scratch test (crosscut test) is performed on the surface of the component to this
end.
2 
Designation
Scratch resistance acc. to PV 3952
3 
Definition
The scratch resistance of plastics is defined as the resistance offered by the material to a mechani-
cal stress, e.g. scratching motion of a sharp edge or rounded object.
4 
Requirements
Requirements and deviations from the test procedure according to the technical supply specifica-
tion and/or release.
5 
Test
5.1 
Principle
A machine-guided scratching gouge scratches a grid with a spacing of approx. 2 mm onto a
painted/unpainted plastic surface. Each scratch is produced by one movement in one direction. A
colorimeter is then used to determine the chromatic aberration in relation to the unscratched sur-
face.
5.2 
Test equipment and auxiliary equipment
-  
Scratching device (e.g. motor-driven crosscutting tool, from Erichsen, model 430; see Figures
1 and 2)
-  
Scratching gouge (e.g. hard metal tip ∅ = 1 mm; the engraving tip of the 318 hardness testing
device from Erichsen is suitable)
-  
Colorimeter acc. to DIN 5033-4
-  
Measurement shapes acc. to DIN 5033 –7 section 3.2.1 - 45°/ 0° or section 3.2.2 - 0°/ 45°
(ideal 45° circular)
Other shapes are also permissible upon agreement with the test laboratories.
-  
Visual evaluation under standard light acc. to DIN 6173 Parts 1 and 2
-  
Standard light D65 (minimum requirement: quality grade 2)
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2
PV 3952: 2002-08
5.3 
Specimen
The specimens must be removed from the components under test and should be of a shape and
size that ensures plane contact with the specimen holder and the supporting table of the respective
spectrophotometer. The test surface must be plane parallel with the contact surface.
5.4 
Specimen preparation
The surface of the specimens must be homogeneous and must have no foreign matter. Specimens
should only be handled with clean, grease-free hands.
5.5 
Conditioning
The specimens must be conditioned for a minimum of 48 h in a standard climate according to
DIN 50 014-23/50-2.
5.6 
Procedure
The test is performed at (23 ± 5)° C.
A scratching tool is used to scratch a grid (crosscut grid) of at least (40 x 40) mm. See Figure 3.
Testing parameters:
-  
Contact force 
F = 5 N and 10 N (for unpainted components; F is dependent on
the position in the vehicle and the component specifications)
F = 10 N (for painted components)
-  
Scratching speed 
v = 1,000 mm/min
-  
Grid spacing
2 mm
-  
Scratching gouge
Ø 1 mm (e.g. engraving tip from the 318 hardness testing device
from Erichsen)


Page 3
PV 3952: 2002-08
Figure 1 -
Figure 1
Figure 2
Specimen
mounting


Page 4
PV 3952: 2002-08
Figure 3
5.7 
Evaluation
The measured values for dL*, da*, db* and dE* of the unscratched area from the scratched area,
determined using colorimetry, are used for evaluation (measured value = mean of at least 5 indi-
vidual measurements).
Measuring method acc. to DIN 5033-4
Color change acc. to DIN 6174
Illuminant: D65 / 10°
Measuring field diameter: ≥ 7 mm
In addition, a test of the measured values for plausibility of the optical impression must be per-
formed (even when the measurements indicate an evaluation of OK).
6 
Referenced standards
DIN 50 014
Climates and Their Technical Application; Standard Climates
DIN 5033-4
Colorimetry; Spectral Method
DIN 5033-7
Colorimetry; Measuring Conditions for Object Colors
DIN 6173-1
Color Sampling; General Color Sampling Conditions
DIN 6173-2
Color Sampling; Lighting Conditions for Artificial Medium Daylight
DIN 6174
Colorimetric Determination of Color Intervals with Object Colors According
to the CIELAB Formula
Grid spacing 2 mm
Grid width
approx. 40 mm
