# PV3987-2016 Scrub Resistance (Micro-Scratch Resistance) of High-Gloss Surfaces in the Vehicle Interior.pdf

Group standard
PV 3987
Issue 2016-11
Class. No.:
55104
Descriptors:
scrub resistance, scratch resistance, rub resistance, micro-scratch resistance, high-gloss surface,
vehicle interior, interior
Scrub Resistance (Micro-Scratch Resistance) of High-Gloss Surfaces in the
Vehicle Interior
Preface
This standard supersedes the "Audi AG Provisional Test Specification" and Test Specification
PV 3975 ("Martindale Scrub Resistance").
Previous issues
PV 3987: 2016-08
Changes
The following changes have been made to PV 3987: 2016-08:
–
Section 3.1 "Test equipment": example changed
Scope
This PV describes a method for testing the micro-scratch resistance and scrub resistance on high-
gloss surfaces.
A surface is referred to as high-glossy if the gloss level measurement at an angle of 60° is
> 70 GU. Further gloss level measurements are performed with a measuring angle of 20°.
This test method is suitable for determining the properties of uncoated (e.g., PA, PMMA) and coat‐
ed high-gloss surfaces (e.g., paint, in-mold decoration (IMD), in-mold labeling (IML)) when they are
exposed to low-force friction loads. The load is roughly equivalent to that of the cleaning process.
The test must be performed on plane surfaces.
1  
Always use the latest version of this standard.
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies, the German version is alone authoritative and controlling.
Page 1 of 4
Technical responsibility
The Standards department
I/GQ-L14
Anette Ludwig
Tel.: +49 841 89 39374
I/GQ-L14
Ronald Schiweck
Tel.: +49 841 89 37305
GQL-P/3
Kenny Strehlow
Tel.: +49 5361 9 76941
GQL-P/3
Eckart Herrmann
Tel.: +49 5361 9 42116
GQL-P
Dr. Jiping Liu
EBP/5 Stefanie Reiss
ESD
Tel.: +49 5361 9 41184
Thomas Behrens
All rights reserved. No part of this document may be provided to third parties or reproduced without the prior consent of one of the Volkswagen Group’s Standards departments.
© Volkswagen Aktiengesellschaft
VWNORM-2015-07d


Page 2
PV 3987: 2016-11
The test determines the relative change in gloss that is generated by rubbing/scrubbing with polish‐
ing paper on the high-gloss surface.
Designation
Scrub resistance (micro-scratch resistance) as per PV 3987
Testing
Test equipment
Test equipment:
Crockmeter as per DIN EN ISO 105-X12 or a different testing device with
which the required test conditions can be set (testing force: 9 N, testing
path: 104 ±3 mm)
Test head
Rubbing adapter C as per DIN 55654 (see figure 1)
Test equipment/rub‐
bing medium:
Polishing paper as per DIN 55654: Abrasive grain made of aluminum oxide,
semi-open coat density of grain, grain 5 µm, bonding of grain with full syn‐
thetic resin on flexible, extruded PES film (e.g. 3M™ 261X1)). Cut the pol‐
ishing paper to an exact width of 25 mm and a minimum length of 75 mm.
Gloss measuring de‐
vice:
Measure the gloss level using a reflectometer (as per DIN EN ISO 2813) at
an angle of 20°.
Figure 1 – Rubbing adapter C as per DIN 55654
Specimen preparation
A minimum specimen size of 150 mm × 100 mm is required to perform the test.
Conditioning:
There must be at least 7 days between specimen preparation and testing.
For conditioning, plan for 48 h in a standard atmosphere as per VW 50554 − 23/50-2.
Condition hydrophilic materials (e.g., polyamides) for 7 days in a standard atmosphere.
Specimen preparation
Clean the specimen gently under lukewarm running water using only your wet hand.
2  
3  
3.1  
3.2  
1)
3M™ 261X is the manufacturer’s designation for the product, produced by 3M Deutschland GmbH. This information is only intended
for informational purposes for the users of this in-house standard. This does not signify an endorsement of the mentioned product
by the Volkswagen Group. Equivalent products may be used if it can be verified that they lead to the same results.


Page 3
PV 3987: 2016-11
A mild laboratory flushing agent that does not leave a greasy residue can be used as a cleaning
agent.
The surfaces to be tested must not be damaged as a result of cleaning.
Then rinse the specimen thoroughly with clear water.
Dry the specimen by blowing it off with oil-free compressed air.
After cleaning, condition hydrophilic materials once again for 24 h in a standard atmosphere.
Test procedure
1.
Condition (see section 3.2).
2.
Clean (see section 3.2; for hydrophilic materials, repeat conditioning if necessary).
3.
Measure the gloss level before scratching. Measure the gloss level at a measuring angle of
20°.
4.
Rub/scratch: Before each rubbing process, clamp in a new rubbing medium. One rubbing
process comprises 5 double strokes. Rub with a load of 9 N. If the rubbed track is not uniform
(streaky, spotted), perform a repeat test.
5.
After rubbing, store the specimens at room temperature for 24 h.
6.
Measure the gloss level on the rubbed track. Align the gloss measuring device in such a way
that the measuring direction is 90° relative to the rubbing direction. Make sure that the measur‐
ing hole of the gloss measuring device rests on the rubbed surface. Do not measure the first
and last 10 mm of the rubbed track.
NOTE: For surfaces without a surface finish treatment, the testing direction must be the injection-
molding direction.
Evaluation/assessment
Determine the scrub resistance as a relative change in gloss level (%) with respect to the initial
gloss level. The measuring angle is 20°.
Calculate the relative change in gloss level as follows:
(Initial gloss level - gloss level after rubbing) × 100
Initial gloss level
(1)
The permissible change in gloss level depends on the respective components and materials. This
must be agreed upon between the appropriate divisions (Development, Styling, Materials Engi‐
neering) before the materials are specified.
Applicable documents
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary to its application.
Some of the cited documents are translations from the German original. The translations of Ger‐
man terms in such documents may differ from those used in this standard, resulting in terminologi‐
cal inconsistency.
Standards whose titles are given in German may be available only in German. Editions in other
languages may be available from the institution issuing the standard.
3.3  
3.4  
4  


Page 4
PV 3987: 2016-11
VW 50554
Standard Atmospheres and Room Temperatures; Requirements on
Standard Atmospheres
DIN 55654
Scratch test using a linear abrasion tester (crockmeter)
DIN EN ISO 105-X12
Textiles - Tests for colour fastness - Part X12: Colour fastness to rub‐
bing
DIN EN ISO 2813
Paints and varnishes - Determination of gloss value at 20°, 60° and 85°
