# PV3906.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 55 03 1
February 1998
Non-Metallic Planar Fabrics
Testing of Abrasion Behavior
PV
3906
Konzernnorm
Continued on page 2
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
K–GQLB                       Frau Bethe                    Dr. Elfrath
Tel: +49-5361-9
Sobanski
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung einer Normenabteilung des Volkswagen Konzerns nicht gestattet.
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung.
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 12.00
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to the December 1996 issue:
─ 
Note for restricted usage removed
─ 
DIN 54 002 replaced by EN 20 105-A03
─ 
Standard restructured
Previous Issues
First issue: 04/72 
Last change: 12/96
1 
Scope
This standard describes a method of testing the resistance to abrasion and/or fastness to rubbing
of flocked (veloured) plastic parts and dyed or printed textiles or films. The test is used for sample
and series monitoring.
2 
Definitions
2.1 
Resistance to Abrasion
Resistance to abrasion is a measure of the adhesion of the cut flock fabric to a substrate body un-
der defined rubbing motions. It is visually evaluated from the perceptible abrasion change to the
specimen resulting from the rubbing.
2.2 
Fastness to Rubbing
Fastness to rubbing is the resistance of the color of the test material to abrasion and soiling of
other textiles (bleeding).
3 
Requirements
Requirements, loads and deviations from the test procedure according to the technical supply
specification and/or release.
4 
Test Procedure
4.1 
Test Equipment and Auxiliary Equipment
4.1.1 
Crockmeter or equivalent device according to EN ISO 105-X12
4.1.2 
Colorless nettle cloth according to EN ISO 105-X12
4.1.3 
Gray-Scale Level According to EN 20 105-A03
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2
PV 3906: 1998-02
4.2 
Specimen Preparation
The specimens are produced based on EN ISO 105-X12. If specimens are to be produced from
formed parts (e.g., storage containers), the specimen sheets should be taken from the most un-
formed area possible on the finished part. The specimen size shall be 150 x 50 mm.
4.3 
Conditioning
The specimens must be conditioned for a minimum of 48 h in a standard climate per DIN 50 014-
23/50-2.
4.4 
Procedure
If required in the technical supply specifications, production releases or drawings, the resistance to
abrasion and/or fastness to rubbing must also be tested in connection with temperature and water
aging in addition to the initial conditioned state, such as
48 h at 70° C mechanically circulated air, 16 h at 90° C mechanically circulated air, 16 h at 120°
mechanically circulated air,
24 in water at (23 ± 2)° C or 48 h at 50° C and 95 relative humidity,
24 h at -40° C.
The tests are performed 15 minutes after removal. Specimens from humidity aging are not tested
until they have been conditioned at room temperature for one hour standing vertically on one of the
two long sides.
The rubbing test against dry and wet rubbing cloth should be performed in a climatized room if
possible such that the resistance to abrasion and fastness to rubbing are evaluated after 10 to 500
Crockmeter strokes.
All specimens must be carefully brushed off or vacuumed prior to testing.
A rubbing cloth at approx. 100% absorbed moisture is designated as “wet” when it has been aged
for 1 minute in water and then blotted by placing it between filter paper and two glass plates for 1
minute under a load of 10 N.
Moist samples and wet rubbing cloths are dried at room temperature prior to the evaluation.
4.5 
Evaluation
The visual evaluation of resistance to abrasion is made according to the following grades:
Grade 1 = no visible change, e.g., no traces of abrasion
Grade 2 = slight change, e.g., barely detectable traces of abrasion
Grade 3 = noticeable change, e.g., color change, surface damage
Grade 4 = strong change, e.g., the substrate material becomes visible
5 
Referenced Standards
DIN 50 014
Climates and Their Technical Application; Standard Climates
DIN EN 20 105-A03
Textiles; Tests for Color Fastness, Part A03: Gray Scale for Assess-
ing Staining
DIN EN ISO 105-X12
Textiles; Tests for Color Fastness, Part X12: Color Fastness to Rub-
bing
