# pv3955.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 55 53 6 
June 2003 
Upholstery Material 
Determination of the Seam Shifting Resistance  
of Upholstery Material: Woven Fabrics 
PV 
3955 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
upholstery material, woven fabric, seam shifting behavior, seam shifting, 
thread shifting, yarn shifting, seam shifting resistance 
 
Page 1of 5 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-31 
Silveira 
Tel: -42113 
Frau Dr. Daniel 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Test Specification PV 3955, 2003-02:  
─ 
Requirements for the stitch length and the seam allowance in Table 1 changed 
─ 
Requirements regarding the test parameters in Table 2 changed 
─ 
Note on clamp breakage in Section 5.4.1 removed 
Previous issues 
2003-02 
1 
Scope 
This test specification serves to determine the resistance of the thread systems in a woven 
upholstery material against shifting in the seam area caused by the sewing threads. This test 
specification is not applicable to elastic woven fabrics (woven fabrics with elastomer threads), 
nonwovens and coated planar fabrics. 
This test specification is based on DIN 53 868 and DIN EN ISO 13 936-2 and applies to sample 
and standard production monitoring tests. 
2 
Description 
Seam shifting resistance according to PV 3955. 
3 
Definitions 
3.1 
Seam shifting behavior 
The tendency of the warp and weft threads of a fabric to shift with respect to each other in the 
seam area when subjected to tensile forces crosswise to the seam direction. Unlike seam strength, 
the seam shifting behavior is a fabric property. 
3.2 
Warp thread shifting 
Seam shifting along the weft threads due to shifting of the warp threads (seam in warp direction, 
tensile load in weft direction). 
3.3 
Weft thread shifting 
Seam shifting along the warp threads due to shifting of the weft threads (seam in weft direction, 
tensile load in warp direction). 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
PV 3955: 2003-06 
 
 
3.4 
Seam opening (gap width) 
Shifting of threads that run parallel to the seam on one or both sides of the seam. 
3.5 
Seam allowance 
Distance between the seam line and the adjacent material edges. 
4 
Requirements 
Requirements shall be taken from the corresponding standard and/or drawing or requested from 
the engineering departments. 
5 
Test 
5.1 
Test equipment 
─ 
Tensile test machine and clamping device according to DIN EN ISO 13 934-1 with constant 
test rate. 
─ 
Devices for cutting and fraying the measurement specimen (e.g., scissors and pinzette). 
─ 
Commercial household or industrial sewing machine suitable for the conditions listed in 
Section 5.2.3. 
─ 
Calibrated ruler with 0.5-millimeter divisions. 
5.2 
Removal of the measurement specimens and specimen preparation 
5.2.1 
Number of specimens 
At least 3 specimens shall be removed in the warp as well as in the weft directions from each 
weave area of the fabric. 
5.2.2 
Specimen removal 
Specimen removal is to be randomly distributed throughout the fabric surface. Specimens shall be 
removed maintaining a distance of at least 100 mm from the fabric edges. Fabric areas with 
wrinkles or creases must not be used. 
The specimens shall be rectangular with a length of at least 220 mm and a width of at least 60 mm. 
To determine the warp thread shifting, the specimens are to be cut out with their long side in the 
weft direction of the fabric (Figure 1). 
To determine the weft thread shifting, the specimens are to be cut out with their long side in the 
warp direction of the fabric (Figure 2). 
The measurement specimens must be 50 mm wide so that the specimens can be frayed 5 mm 
along the two long sides. 


Page 3 
PV 3955: 2003-06 
 
 
 
Figure 1 – Specimen removal for determining seam shifting behavior – warp thread shifting 
 
 
 
Figure 2 – Specimen removal for determining seam shifting behavior – weft thread shifting 
 


Page 4 
PV 3955: 2003-06 
 
 
5.2.3 
Specimen preparation 
The specimen is folded in half with the fabric’s right side inward so that there are two specimen 
sides lying on top of one another with parallel edges. 
 
A 5 cm seam is made straight along the threads and parallel to the folded edge at a distance from 
the fold line corresponding to the seam allowance (Table 1). See Table 1 for the sewing conditions. 
The ends of the threads of the seam shall be carefully knotted without pulling the seam. 
The tube created by the seam allowance is cut open along the folded edge. 
See Table 1 for the seam requirements. 
Table 1 – Seam requirements and sewing conditions 
Seam properties 
Requirements 1) 
Stitch type 
Two-thread lockstitch, stitch type 301 
Stitch length 
(4.0 ± 0.5) mm 
Sewing thread 
Polyester threads Nm 30/3, white 
Needle 
Nm 100, standard tip 
Seam allowance 
(8.0 ± 0.5) mm 
Thread tension 
Balanced tension of upper and lower threads 
so that the thread crossing is centered on the 
material to be sewn 
Back stitching 
Thread ends knotted (5 x) without pulling 
seam threads 
1) These requirements can be adapted to the standard production conditions. Changes in the seam properties or sewing conditions 
must be agreed upon with the engineering departments and noted in the test report. 
5.3 
Test procedure 
5.3.1 
Acclimatization to the standard climate 
The measurement specimens as well as the standard media must be acclimatized to the standard 
climate according to DIN EN 20 139 for at least 24 hours prior to the test. 
5.3.2 
Tensile test 
The tensile test is performed based on DIN EN ISO 13 934-1. See Table 2 for the test conditions. 
Table 2 – Test conditions for the tensile test 
Test parameters 
Requirements 
Free clamping length 
100 mm 
Preload force 
3 N 
Speed until preload force 
5 mm/min 
Test rate 
10 mm/min 
Tensile load 
Coverings with clips: 
350 N/50 mm 
Coverings with self-fastening straps: 400 N/50 mm 
Duration of load 
1 min 
The specimen is to be clamped so that the seam is in the center of the clamping length and parallel 
to the edges of the two clamps. 


Page 5 
PV 3955: 2003-06 
 
 
5.4 
Evaluation 
5.4.1 
Seam opening under load 
The seam opening (gap width) occurring after one minute under the specified tensile load must be 
read directly from the specimen using the calibrated ruler (Figure 3). The mean values of the seam 
opening under load in the warp and weft directions must be stated with an accuracy of 0.5 mm. If 
destruction occurs due to breakage of the sewing thread or tearing of the upholstery material 
outside the seam area, this is noted in the test report. 
 
Figure 3 – Determination of the seam opening under tensile load 
Immediately after measurement, the measurement specimen must be completely unloaded with 
the constant test rate of 100 mm/min. 
5.4.2 
Seam opening after load (permanent seam opening) 
After unloading and subsequent tensile load of 10 N, it must be decided whether the seam opening 
is visible or not visible. If the seam has torn, the notation torn seam must be made in the test 
report. 
6 
Test report 
The following shall be specified in the test report: 
a) Measured specimen data 
b) Specimen preparation 
c) 
Seam parameters 
d) Test conditions 
e) Number of individual tests in the warp and weft directions 
f) 
Mean value of the seam opening under load in the warp and weft directions 
g) Evaluation of the seam opening after load (permanent seam opening): 
visible, not visible or torn seam 
h) Deviations from this test specification 
7 
Referenced standards*) 
DIN 53 868 
Testing of Textiles; Determination of the Resistance to Seam Shifting of 
Woven Fabrics 
DIN EN 20 139 
Textiles; Standard Atmospheres for Conditioning and Testing 
DIN EN ISO 13 934-1 
Textiles – Tensile Properties of Fabrics – Part 1: Determination of 
Maximum Force and Elongation at Maximum Force Using the Strip 
Method 
DIN EN ISO 13 936-2 
Textiles – Determination of the Slippage Resistance of Yarns at a Seam 
in Woven Fabrics – Part 2: Fixed Load Method 
                                                
*) 
In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
