# PV3930.pdf

 
Group Standard 
PV 3930
2008-03
Class. No.: 
55126 
Descriptors:  
Florida, Florida test, weathering, weather resistance, climate 
 
Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Page 1 of 5 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
Numerical notation acc. to ISO practice. 
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature. 
Technical Responsibility 
Standards 
GQL-LP/3 
Sabine Kamieth-Müller  
Tel.: +49-5361-9-30173
GQL-LP 
Dr. Roger Hillert 
EKTC/4 Ute Hager-Süss 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-49035 
EKTC 
Manfred Terlinden 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior permission of a Standards department within the Volkswagen 
Group. 
Contract partners shall obtain the standard only through the B2B supplier platform www.vwgroupsupply.com. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
 
vwnorm-2007-07 
 
 
 
Non-Metallic Materials 
Weathering in Moist, Hot Climate 
 
Previous issues 
PV 3930: 1993-11, 1994-08, 2003-11 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Test Specification PV 3930: 2003-11: 
─ 
Two test devices removed, two added 
1 
Scope 
This standard describes the procedure for testing the aging behavior (e.g., change in color and 
gloss) of plastics, elastomers and folding-top cloths as well as paintwork and similar coatings that 
are subjected to weather and daylight. Testing is carried out by means of artificial weathering in a 
moist hot climate (e.g., Florida). 
The test is used for sample and standard production monitoring. 
NOTE: For certain applications, the aging criteria may consist of changes in the mechanical proper-
ties or cracking. For this reason, additional tests may be required along with the visual evaluation 
and color and glossiness measurements. These tests may include tensile tests, determination of 
impact resistance, determination of hardness and microscopic examinations, for example. 
2 
Description 
Weather resistance according to PV 3930 


Page 2 
PV 3930: 2008-03 
 
3 
Requirements 
The number of required year cycles, as well as deviations from this test standard, are set out in the 
Technical Supply Specifications, Volkswagen standards and drawings depending on the compo-
nent position or material. 
4 
Test Method 
4.1 
Principle 
Specimens shall be irradiated using Xenon arc light and periodically moistened. Filters shall be 
used to adapt the Xenon arc light to the global radiation with its spectral distribution of ultraviolet 
and visible radiation. 
Testing shall be performed in devices according to DIN EN ISO 4892-2 and DIN EN ISO 11341. 
The test conditions each describe a year cycle, referred to the average dose of UV radiation of 
(300 to 385) nm in moist, hot climate zones, e.g., Florida. 
4.2 
Test equipment 
Equipment according to DIN EN ISO 4892-2 and DIN EN ISO 11341 shall be used. To ensure that 
the test results of the suppliers and purchaser are comparable, the make to be used for the test 
must be agreed with the responsible laboratory of the Volkswagen Group. 
4.3 
Weathering conditions 
See Table 1. To comply with the test temperatures and, in particular, the black standard tempera-
tures, it may be necessary to keep the laboratory space at a constant temperature or to connect a 
cooling unit to the test equipment. 
Table 1 
Make 
Xenotest 1200 CPS Xenotest alpha 
Xenotest beta LM 
Weather-O-Meter 
Ci 3000 
Ci 4000 
Ci 5000 
Suntest XXL+ 
Q-Panel 
Filter 
3 UV-Spezial Suprax
Replace according to 
manufacturer's 
specifications 
Xenochrom 300 
Replace according to 
manufacturer's 
specifications 
Pyrex S/Pyrex S 
Replace according to 
manufacturer's 
specifications 
Coated quartz filter 
and 300 nm daylight 
filter 
Coated quartz filter 
and 300 nm daylight 
filter 
Rain cycle 
102 : 18 
Specimen rotation 
Non-turning mode 
Flatbed equipment 
Black standard 
temperature (°C) 
65 ± 2 
Specimen chamber 
temperature 
in the dry phase (°C) 
35 to 45 
Relative humidity in the 
dry phase (%) 
60 to 80 
Intensity of irradiation 
(W/m²) 
(nm) 
(Controlled) 
60 
300 to 400 
(Controlled) 
0,5 
340 
300 to 400 
Test duration  
(approximate value) (h) 
Approx. 1 600 
 
 
 
 
Irradiation dose 
(1 year cycle)  
(MJ/m
²) 
350 
2,9 
350 


Page 3 
PV 3930: 2008-03 
 
4.4 
Specimen 
4.4.1 
Specimen preparation 
The specimens shall be taken from a representative portion of the finished part to be tested or of 
specimen sheets manufactured under standard production conditions. They shall be as flat as pos-
sible. As long as the apparatus-dependent specimen carrier size is not exceeded, complete com-
ponents may also be tested. However, it is important to ensure that the surface to be tested does 
not project more than 10 mm over the specimen carrier plane. The specimen shall be secured on 
the specimen carrier. One half of the specimen's surface shall be covered with a sheet metal mask. 
In order to test the change in mechanical properties, e.g., by means of tensile tests and determina-
tion of the impact resistance, the specimens shall be made in a size that is required for the respec-
tive test procedure or that is prescribed in standards. 
Paintwork and similar coatings shall be tested always on the substrate to be used. 
For the test of paint materials, sample coatings shall be produced under standard production condi-
tions (application method, drying method, and coating thickness). 
4.4.2 
Specimen size 
The specimen size shall be in accordance with the maximum clampable test surfaces in the original 
specimen carriers. Thus, the following would apply: 
─ 
Xenotest 1200 CPS 
(175 x 60) mm 
─ 
Xenotest alpha 
(130 x 40) mm 
─ 
Weather-O-meter Ci 3000 
(130 x 45) mm 
─ 
Weather-O-Meter Ci 4000 and Ci 5000 
(1 450 x 70) mm 
─ 
Suntest XXL+ 
(135 x 45) mm 
─ 
Q-Panel 
(135 x 45) mm 
The selected specimen size shall be sufficiently large to ensure that proper evaluation can be per-
formed with the designated procedures. 
4.4.3 
Specimen carriers 
Only for Xenotest 1200 CPS: Bent non-turning carriers shall be used in order to achieve an even 
intensity of irradiation over all three specimen carrier planes. 
For the Suntest XXL+ and Q-Panel Xenotest equipment types, it shall be ensured that the speci-
men frames are rotated clockwise every 200 h in order to achieve uniform weathering of the 
specimens. 
4.5 
Weathering test 
 
4.5.1 
Cleaning the filters 
The filter systems shall be checked and cleaned at regular intervals. 


Page 4 
PV 3930: 2008-03 
 
4.5.2 
Replacing the irradiator 
The maximum operating time of the irradiator for non-adjustable equipment types is 1 500 h. How-
ever, the operating time for adjustable equipment types may be extended up to the control limit. 
4.5.3 
Spray water 
To avoid deposits on the specimen, which can complicate the evaluation, distilled or deionized, 
silicate-free water with a conductance of ≤ 0,2 µS and an evaporation residue of < 1 ppm shall be 
used. 
4.5.4 
Weathering cycle 
The end of a weathering cycle is reached for a specified intensity of UV irradiation and radiation 
dose after a specific test duration (approximate value; see Table 1). To ensure even intensity of 
irradiation, this shall be checked weekly with the Xenocal made by Atlas. In the Q-Panel equip-
ment, this is checked with appropriate sensors. 
4.6 
Evaluating the specimens 
4.6.1 
Visual evaluation 
Changes in color and gloss shall be compared against the previously covered surface or an unex-
posed reference specimen with the gray scale to evaluate the “change in color” according to 
DIN EN 20105-A02 under lighting according to DIN EN ISO 105-A01 or indirect daylight by several 
proficient normal-sighted people (at least two). 
Changes that need not be evaluated by means of measurements are described according to 
DIN 53230. 
4.6.2 
Colorimetric evaluation 
In addition to the visual evaluation, a colorimetric evaluation using a spectrophotometer according 
to CIELAB (DIN 6174), excluding the gloss value, shall be conducted according to a procedure 
specified in VW 50195. 
If required, the result shall be converted to gray-scale levels according to DIN EN 20105-A02, and 
for yellowing to yellow values according to DIN 6167. 
In the case of painted specimens, it is preferable to perform a colorimetric evaluation. 
For single-color and homogenous surfaces, at least three measurements shall be averaged. For 
multicolored, structured or anisotropically scattering specimens, the number of measurements to 
be averaged shall be increased. 
4.6.3 
Evaluation of gloss 
Gloss shall be measured as a reflectometer value according to DIN 67530, and the change after 
weathering is expressed in %. 


Page 5 
PV 3930: 2008-03 
 
4.7 
Test report 
If required in the corresponding Technical Supply Specification/Volkswagen standard/drawing, the 
following information shall be specified in the test report with reference to this test standard: 
a) Test equipment 
b) Total test duration 
c) 
Color change: gray-scale level/dE/dL/da/db 
d) Any color shift 
e) Yellow value according to DIN 6167 
f) 
Change in gloss 
g) Further tested properties and test methods of the appropriate test standard 
h) Additional observations and changes such as cracks, spotting, exudations, chalking, etc. 
i) 
Any agreed upon conditions that deviate from this Test Specification. 
5 
Referenced documents 
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary for application. 
In this Section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
VW 50195 
Colorimetric Evaluation of Automobile Paint Coatings 
DIN 6167 
Description of Yellowness of Near-White or Near-Colourless Materials 
DIN 6174 
Colorimetric Evaluation of Colour Coordinates and Colour Differences ac-
cording to the Approximately Uniform CIELAB Colour Space 
DIN 53230 
Testing of Paints, Varnishes and Similar Coating Materials, Scheme for the 
Evaluation of Tests 
DIN 67530 
Reflectometer as a Means for Gloss Assessment of Plane Surfaces of Paint 
Coatings and Plastics 
DIN EN 20105-A02 
Textiles – Tests for Colour Fastness – Part A02: Grey Scale for Assessing 
Change in Colour 
DIN EN ISO 105-A01 Textiles – Tests for Colour Fastness – Part A01: General Principles of Test-
ing 
DIN EN ISO 4892-2 
Plastics – Methods of Exposure to Laboratory Light Sources – Part 2: Xe-
non-Arc Lamps 
DIN EN ISO 11341 
Paints and Varnishes – Artificial Weathering and Exposure to Artificial Ra-
diation – Exposure to Filtered Xenon-Arc Radiation 
