# PV6582.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 04 81 5
April 2001
Sub Frame WGR PQ 34
Evaluation of the Welded Joints
PV
6582
Konzernnorm
Descriptors:
welding, gas-shielded arc welding, spot welding, projection welding, sub frame,
PQ34
D
Page 1 of 11
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
3-PBQ-12       Böttcher                      Lüttig
Fischer
Tel.: +49-5361-927995
Sobanski
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung einer Normenabteilung des Volkswagen Konzerns nicht gestattet.
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung.
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 12.00
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to the July 2000 issue:
Cuts 23 to 30 added in sections 3.4.3.1 and 5.1
Previous issues
1996-01; 1998-12; 2000-04
Contents
Page
1
Scope..................................................................................................................................... 1
2
Definitions .............................................................................................................................. 1
3
Requirements ........................................................................................................................ 2
4
Rework................................................................................................................................... 6
5
Draft, microsections............................................................................................................... 7
6
Referenced standards ......................................................................................................... 11
1 
Scope
Sub frame WGR PQ 34
2 
Definitions
2.1 
Gas-shielded arc joints
a‘
=
Min. throat thickness
f1
=
Side wall penetration depth on 
component t1
e1
=
Min. depth of root penetration
f2
=
Side wall penetration depth on 
component t2
e2
=
Max. depth of root penetration
R
=
Weld rotation DIN EN ISO 6947
t1
=
Thickness of thinner component
t2
=
Thickness of thicker component
Figure 1 - Welded seam geometry according to VW 011 06
Welded seam
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2
PV 6582: 2001-04
2.2 Spot weld joints
tL
Weld nugget penetration depth
ts
Gap width
tE1,2
Indentation depth
t1,2
Material thickness
Figure 2 – Weld spot geometry according to VW 011 05
3 
Requirements
3.1 
Visual inspection
3.1.1 
Welded seams, weld spots
The external appearance, dimensions, position, and presence of the welded seams or the welded
spots must comply with the drawing.
3.1.2 
Weld spatter
Weld spatter that adversely affects the function of the component is not permissible (see drawing).
3.1.3 
Procedure
100% visual inspection.
3.2 
Evaluation of the welded joints
3.2.1 
Gas-shielded arc joints
The limit values for irregularities in welded joints are defined in table 2 (also see DIN EN 25 817
and VW 011 06). The welds must comply with the evaluation criteria listed in tables 1 and 2.
3.2.2 
Spot welding
Pores, inclusions, cracks and deep craters (≥ 0.5 mm) are not permissible. Spot quality according
to section 3.4.3.2.
1 Indentation ∅ dE1
2 Joining plane
3 Adhesion zone
4 Nugget ∅ dL
5 Indentation ∅ dE2
2
1
3
4
5


Page 3
PV 6582: 2001-04
3.2.3 
Projection welding
See section 3.4.3.3 for requirement.
3.3 
Specimen preparation
3.3.1 
Gas-shielded arc joints
The specimen is cut at the positions defined in section 5.2. The cut surfaces must be finish-ground
and etched with nitric acid of (2 to 20)% concentration, so that the penetration of the weld metal
into the base metal becomes visible.
3.3.2 
Spot welding
-  
Destructive chisel test according to PV 6702, alternatively tear-out test with universal tensile
testing machine. The diameter of the welded spot dP shall be determined using a caliper gage.
-  
Metallographic test for determination of the weld nugget diameter according to test
specification PV 6702. The microsection through the center of the weld spot is measured using
a magnifying glass.
3.3.3 
Projection welding
Testing by means of a torque wrench.
3.3.4 
Documentation according to Technical Guideline for Documentation TLD 101 005 V1
The results of the welded seams and spot weld connections are documented on control cards.
3.4 
Test procedure
3.4.1 
Test frequency
-  Testing at start of shift and when welding machines are readjusted.
-  Weld nugget diameter dL = 1 x per year.
-  Weld spot diameter dP = 1 part per month
3.4.2 
Note on release
A positive evaluation of the microsections is a precondition for the release of the batch that was
produced in the meantime.
The life test (single-stage thrust) takes place during standard production. The test frequency is
matched to the respective quality of the parts.
For life test see drawing.
3.4.3 
Evaluation
A "go" or "no-go" evaluation result is based on the desired values according to sections 3.4.3.1,
3.4.3.2 and 3.4.3.3.


Page 4
PV 6582: 2001-04
3.4.3.1 
Gas-shielded arc joints
Table 1 - Penetration depths
Cutting positions
(see section 5.1)
Microsections
(see section 5.2)
Penetration depths
f1 and f2
(mm)
Welded joint
1 to 8
Figures 4 and 5
≥ 0.5
Longitudinal weld,
upper/lower part
9 and 10
Figure 6
≥ 0.5
Long-hole weld,
upper part/partition
plate
11 and 12
Figure 7
≥ 0.5
Partition plate/lower
part
13 to 18
Figure 8
≥ 0.3
Bush/upper part
13a to 18a
Figure 9
≥ 0.3
Bush/lower part
19 and 20
Figure 10
≥ 0.5
Welded seam, upper
part/lower part
21 and 22
–
Tack weld
Reinforcement/lower
part WGR
23 to 30 1)
–
≥ 0.3
Bracket/sub frame 2)
1) - Manual weldings, 7 weld seams (see section 5.1), cuts in center of seam
   - One seam (cut 30) welded in MAG cell
2) Only sub frame WGR with additional weight


Page 5
PV 6582: 2001-04
Table 2 - Weld evaluation (also see DIN EN 25 817)
Unless otherwise specified in the drawing, the following table applies to the limit
values for irregularities. Irregularities must not have a negative influence on the
surface protection.
Acceptance levels:
D = low
C = medium
B = high
Limit values for irregularities
No.
Designation of
irregularity
Remarks
Accept. lev. Definition
1
Cracks
–
C
Not permissible
a) Maximum dimension of the
total on the depicted surface
B
1%
3
Porosity and pores
b) Maximum dimension of the
individual pore
B
d = 0.6 mm
a) Long irregularities
B
Not permissible
5
Elongated cavity,
elongated pores
b) Short irregularities 1)
B
h = 0.6 mm
a) Long irregularities
B
Not permissible
6
Solid inclusions
(except copper)
b) Short irregularities 1)
B
h = 0.6 mm
8
Lack of fusion
–
C
Not permissible
9
Incomplete
penetration
Desired 
penetration 
 Actual  
penetration 
 
B
Not permissible if
minimum
penetration is not
achieved
10
Poor fit
(air gap)
B
= 0.5 mm
11
Undercuts
Smooth transition permissible
B
= 0.5 mm
1) Short irregularity:
One or several irregularities with a total length ≤ 25 mm referred to a
weld length of 100 mm, or with a minimum dimension amounting to 25
% of the total length of a weld ≤ 100 mm.


Page 6
PV 6582: 2001-04
Limit values for irregularities
No.
Designation of
irregularity
Remarks
Accept. lev. Definition
13
Too much excess
weld metal
Actual throat 
thickness 
 
 
Desired throat 
thickness 
 
 
B
h = 1 mm
20
Unequal weld leg
lengths
B
h = 1.5 mm
Minimum
penetration must
be complied with
25
Weld spatter
–
–
See section 2.1.2
3.4.3.2 Spot welds
-
OK:
? The weld spot separates from the base material or the joint withstands the test 
load.
? dP min. see VW 011 05-1 Table 6
? dL ≥ 5.0 mm (sheet-metal thickness: 2 mm according to VW 011 05–1)
-
Not OK: 
? The welding breaks apart; the weld spot does not separate.
Note:
Decisions concerning the permissibility of defective spots (tolerance spots)
will be made after testing and in-vehicle tests, and this information
will be included in the drawing (responsible: EF).
3.4.3.3 Projection welds
Welded joint
Stripping torque (Mw) in
Nm
Number
Welded pin on partition plate
≥ 100
2x
Round welded nuts on sub frame
≥  50
4x
4 
Rework
A workshop sketch (WSK) will be prepared for the rework possibilities.


Page 7
PV 6582: 2001-04
5 
Draft, microsections
5.1 
Arrangement of cuts
The cuts must be located at least 10 mm behind the start of the weld or in front of the end of the
weld, or they must be located in the middle of the weld (cuts 9 to 20).
23-30  P H 
Figure 3 – Cutting pattern
Cuts 1
to
8:
Longitudinal weld, upper/lower part
P:
Spot welds upper 
part/lower part
Cuts 9
and
10:
Long-hole weld, upper part/partition plate
Ps:
Spot welds Partition
plate/lower part
Cuts 11 and
12:
Partition plate/lower part
Cuts 13 to
18:
Bush/upper part
PH:1) 
Spot welds on 
bracket/sub frame
(6 points)
Cuts 13a
to
18a:
Bush/lower part
Cuts 19 and
20:
Welded seam, upper/lower part
Cuts 21 to
22:
Reinforcement on upper part WGR
Cuts 23 to 
30:
Bracket/sub frame 1)
1) Only sub frame WGR with additional weight


Page 8
PV 6582: 2001-04
5.2 
Microsections
Good GMMA welded joints
Figure 4 – Cut 2
Penetration: 0.8 mm and 0.6 mm
Figure 5 – Cut 7
Penetration 0.6 mm


Page 9
PV 6582: 2001-04
Figure 6 – Cut 9
Penetration 1.5 mm
Figure 7 – Cut 11
Penetration 0.8 mm


Page 10
PV 6582: 2001-04
Figure 8 – Cut 14
Penetration: 0.4 mm and 0.3 mm
Figure 9 – Cut 16a
Penetration 0.7 mm
