# QPR015.pdf

Klass-Nr./Class. No. 57 73 2 
February 2005 
Self-Adhesive Film 
Quality Requirements 
QP 
R 015 
Konzernnorm 
Descriptors: 
film, self-adhesive, transit coating 
Continued on pages 2 to 8 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
PM-V 
Dr. Fehlau 
Tel.: -34761 
Richter 
I/PG-61 Woll 
Wiesner 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 01.05 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to QP R 015: 1999-12: 
─
specifications for the manufacturing of test sheet metals added 
─
determinations for paint preservative and open-air weathering changed 
─
determinations for resistance to liquid media added
─
VW 501 56 added 
─
referenced standards updated 
─
standard restructured 
Previous issues 
1999-12 
1 
Scope 
This standard defines the quality requirements for self-adhesive films for the protection of new 
vehicles during transport. 
2 
Description 
APS 265 XXX, APS 275 XXX, APS 277 XXX
XXX = width in cm. 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Sampling and supply specifications according. to VW 501 56. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
The quality requirements for self-adhesive films for the transport protection shall be fulfilled with all 
clear coats from different suppliers that are used in the Volkswagen Group. 
Supplied materials must meet the applicable regulations for environmental protection and 
occupational safety; all information regarding the hazards associated with their transport and 
storage must be included with the delivery papers. 
The materials shall be free of toxic compounds (e.g. methanol, benzene, chlorinated 
hydrocarbons), shall not have a permanent unpleasant odor and shall be free of substances 
impairing the wetting ability. 
The supplier shall seek the permission of the relevant responsible process engineering department 
before making changes to the composition of materials supplied according to this standard. 
Sample and first supply shall be accompanied by a detailed test report. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
Numerical notation according to ISO practice (see VW 01000). 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
QP R 015: 2005-02 
According to the supply specifications the supplier bears continued responsibility for the quality of 
their product. This also includes flaws that occur after delay in time and can be proven to be 
caused by material defects. Sample and first supply must be verified by a test report. An extended 
test report on the basis of the agreed testing criteria shall be submitted each quarter. 
The supplier shall keep abreast of processes used in the Group so that changes in process and 
application conditions can be taken into consideration. 
The material release can be revoked if laboratory and/or production tests reveal that a competitor's 
material is of higher quality or more economical. 
The material supplied shall correspond to the reference sample in the most important properties 
and it shall be free of substances that impair wetting abilities. 
The films shall be suitable for transportation by truck, railway and ship. Acceptance drive tests will 
be carried out by Volkswagen Transport and evaluated by Quality Assurance. The release of the 
protective films is only granted after the successful operation test. 
A processing concept (e.g. reusability or recyclability) shall be documented. 
The specifications below shall be understood as standard values, which shall be complied with as a 
rule. Once the processing properties and paint protection effect are ensured, a deviation from these 
specifications may be permitted in individual cases, after release by the responsible organizational 
unit of the Group (process engineering department).
3.2 
Removability 
The adhesive films shall permit proper removal from the vehicle at temperatures between -20 °C 
and +60 °C. 
3.3 
Composition 
Pigmented polyolefin based plastic film with synthetic elastomer based adhesive layer. 
3.4 
Thickness 
Testing according to DIN 53370. Requirement: 60 µm to 80 µm. 
3.5 
Tear strength 
Testing according to DIN EN ISO 527-2 in flow direction. Requirement: > 20 N/mm². 
3.6 
Elongation at tear 
Testing according to DIN EN ISO 527-2 in flow direction. Requirement: > 450%. 
3.7 
Resistance against aging 
At a temperature between +5 °C and +30 °C the appli
cation properties shall remain unchanged for 
at least 3 months. The removal behavior from the roll must not change. 


Page 3 
QP R 015: 2005-02 
3.8 
Test sheet metals 
For the following tests, test sheet metals with standard production paint structure are used. It shall 
be coordinated with the responsible organizational unit of the Volkswagen Group (process 
engineering department). 
Production of the test sheets (with standard production materials): 
─
pretreatment: 8 µm to 10 µm zinc phosphating, 
─
primer coat: 17 µm to 22 µm cathodic dip primer 
─
filler: (35 ± 10) µm (water diluted or containing conventional solvent), paint coat thickness with 
the use of thin-layer filler: 20 µm to 35 µm, 
─
base coat (water diluted or containing conventional solvent): paint coat thickness 10 µm to 
30 µm, depending on color acc. to the respective release; for colors with relatively low covering 
power (e.g. yellow and red colors), the paint coat thickness may also be up to 40 µm 
─
1-component or 2-component clear coat: coating thickness (40 ± 10) µm 
For all tests, primer and filler shall not be sanded. 
Adhesive force (section 3.11) and paint compatibility (section 3.12) also have to be tested with the 
standard production repair paints and clear coats for plastic parts. The repair paint structure and 
the baking conditions shall be coordinated with the responsible organizational unit of the 
Volkswagen Group (process engineering department) (usually 30 min at (80 ± 5) °C). 
3.9 
Baking conditions 
Laboratory baking conditions for the paint coats on test sheet metals (the temperatures specified 
are object temperatures for baking in a mechanical circulation oven): 
─
pre-drying the filler (water diluted): 4 min at (70 ± 5) °C, 
─
flash-off of the filler (containing solvent): approx. 5 min at room temperature (booth conditions), 
─
drying with standard production painting: 18 min at (165 ± 5) °C, 
─
flash-off of the base coat (water-diluted and containing solvent): approx. 3 min at room 
temperature, 
─
intermediate drying of the base coat (water-diluted): 4 min at (70 ± 5) °C, 
─
flash-off of the 1-component/2-component clear coat: approx. 5 min at room temperature 
(booth conditions), 
─
drying: 
 
a) underbaking drying of the 1-component/2-component clear coat: 15 to 20 min at 
 
(125 ± 5) °C, 
 
b) overbaking drying of the 1-component/2-component clear coat: 30 min at (160 ± 5) °C 
 
c) conditions for standard production painting: 20 min at (140 ± 5) °C 
3.10 
Film application 
For the following tests, the film is applied to the test sheets 60 min after burn-in of the paint. The 
film is applied lightly but as free of bubbles and folds as possible with a plastic wiper. 
3.11 
Adhesive force 
Test based on DIN EN ISO 527-2 and DIN 53815. 
Requirement for use on steel: (1,0 + 0,2) N/cm, 
Requirements for use on test sheet metals: 


Page 4 
QP R 015: 2005-02 
─
after 30 min on test metal sheets with standard production clear coat (with complete paint 
structure according to section 3.8 and underbaking drying according to section 3.9) 1,0 N/cm 
to 3,0 N/cm. 
─
after 24 h on test sheet metals with repair paint structure: 1,8 N/cm to 3,5 N/cm. 
3.12 
Paint compatibility 
For the tests sheet metals with standard production and repair paint structure are used. 
After the tests listed below, the film must permit proper removal.  During low-temperature aging the 
film must not embrittle. Irreversible paint effects such as swelling, loss of glossiness or 
discoloration of the paint film are impermissible. 
Tests: 
─
120 h in condensed water constant climate according to DIN 50017-KK, 
─
h storage at 80 °C in mechanical circulation oven, 
─
environmental cycle aging, cycle II according to PV 14.06, alternatively, 10 cycles according to 
PV 1200, 
─
16 h at -40 °C. 
3.13 
Resistance to gasoline 
Test according to PV 3.11.1 (premium unleaded gasoline according to DIN EN 228) and PV 3.11.2 
(FAM test fuel according to DIN 51604-1), based on VDA 621-412 (tests A 4.1.1 Y and 4.1.3 Y); 
stress duration 10 min. 
After the test time has elapsed, the film must permit proper removal, the paint underneath must 
fulfill the following requirements: 
Requirement for gasoline premium unleaded fuel: characteristic value 1, for FAM test fuel: 
characteristic value 2. 
3.14 
Resistance to diesel fuel 
Test according to PV 3.11.3 (diesel fuel according to DIN EN 590 and fatty acid methyl ester 
(FAME) according to DIN EN 14214), based on VDA 621-412 (test A 4.1.2 X); stress duration 
60 min. 
After the test time has elapsed, the film must permit proper removal, the paint underneath must 
fulfill the following requirements: 
Requirement for diesel fuel and FAME: characteristic value 1. In the test of the resistance to FAME, 
reversible swellings (i.e. automatic reversal after 24 h without addition of heat) are permissible. 
3.15 
Resistance to operating materials 
The test is performed based on PV 3.12.1 and VDA 621-412 (test A) in the following test 
substances. The stress duration varies depending on the test substance between 10 min and 16 h. 
For the tests, test sheet metals with standard production clear coats and complete paint structure 
are used. 
Test substances: 
─
engine oil according to TL 521 07 (based on VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.4 X) – 16 h, 
─
transmission oil according to PV 3.12.1 (based on VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.5 X) –10 min, 
─
hydraulic fluid according to TL 521 46 (based on VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.6 X) – 16 h, 
─
automatic transmission fluid according to TL 521 62 (based on VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.7 X) –
10 min, 


Page 5 
QP R 015: 2005-02 
─
brake fluid according to TL 766 (based on VDA 621-412, test A 4.2.1 X) – 1 h, 
─
antifreeze according to TL 774 (based on VDA 621-412, test A 4.2.4 X) – 1 h, 
─
windshield washer fluid (factory fill) (based on VDA 621-412, test A 4.2.5 X) – 10 min. 
After the test time has elapsed, the film must permit proper removal, the paint underneath must 
fulfill the following requirements: 
No change in the paint surface, characteristic value 1. In the test of the resistance to brake fluid, 
reversible swellings (i.e. automatic reversal after 24 h without addition of heat) are permissible. 
3.16 
Resistance to chemicals 
The test is performed according to PV 4.6.3. For the tests, test sheet metals with standard 
production clear coats with complete paint structure are used. 
After the test time has elapsed, the film must permit proper removal, the paint underneath must 
fulfill the following requirements: 
No surface disturbances may be recognizable up to the specified temperatures. Adequate lighting 
must be ensured for the visual evaluation. 
─
sodium lye:  
after 24 h ≥ 40 °C, 
─
sulfuric acid:  
after 24 h ≥ 40 °C, 
─
tree sap:   
after 24 h ≥ 40 °C, 
─
pancreatin:  
after 24 h = 35 °C. 
3.17 
Resistance to lyes 
Test according to PV 3.10.3. The test is carried out on test sheet metals that are painted solid 
black. 
After the test time has elapsed, the film must permit proper removal, the paint underneath must 
fulfill the following requirements: 
Damage is impermissible. The reduction in glossiness as compared to the original value must be 
less than 10%. After a polishing process no significant reduction in quality (softening, material 
removal) may be detected. 
3.18 
Resistance to acids 
Test according to PV 3.16.4. The test is carried out on test sheet metals that are painted solid 
black. 
After the test time has elapsed, the film must permit proper removal, the paint underneath must 
fulfill the following requirements: 
Damage is impermissible. The reduction in glossiness as compared to the original value must be 
less than 10%. After a polishing process no significant reduction in quality (softening, material 
removal) may be detected. 
3.19 
Resistance to industrial grade dust remover 
Test according to PV 3.10.5. 
After the test time has elapsed, the film must permit proper removal, the paint underneath must 
fulfill the following requirements: 
Damage is impermissible. The reduction in glossiness as compared to the original value must be 
less than 10%. After a polishing process no significant reduction in quality (softening, material 
removal) may be detected. 


Page 6 
QP R 015: 2005-02 
3.20 
Weather resistance 
3.20.1 
Open-air weathering in Central Europe and Arizona 
Test sheet metals with standard production clear coats with complete paint structure are used. 
Tests: 
─
minimum 9 months in Central Europe 
─
minimum 6 months in Arizona 
After the test time has elapsed, the film must permit proper removal, the paint underneath must 
fulfill the following requirements: 
Irreversible effects on the paint surface such as discoloration, loss of glossiness or swelling are 
impermissible. 
3.20.2 
Open-air weathering in Florida 
The test is performed according to PV 3.13.2. For the tests, test sheet metals with standard 
production clear coats (with complete paint structure according to section 3.8 and 
underbaking/overbaking drying according to section 3.9) are used. The test duration is 6 months. 
After the test time has elapsed the film must permit proper removal, the paint underneath must 
fulfill the following requirements: 
Irreversible effects on the paint surface such as discoloration, loss of glossiness or swelling are 
impermissible. A significant, visually perceptible color change according to DIN EN 20105-A02 is 
also impermissible. The paint surface must shine as in original condition without polishing.  
3.20.3 
Artificial weathering in humid heat (Florida simulation) 
Test according to PV 3930. Test sheet metals with standard production clear coats and complete 
paint structure and underbaking/overbaking drying are used. 
─
test sequence for Audi: e.g. CAM 180 test, altogether 500 h: 350 h CAM 180, subsequently, 72 
h moisture-condensate constant climate according to DIN 50017-KK, followed by 150 h CAM 
180. 
─
test sequence for Volkswagen: Weather-O-Meter test with xenon arc light testing device (e.g. 
ATLAS Ci 5000), test duration 800 h corresponding to 6 month-cycles of Florida open-air 
weathering, then 72 h moisture-condensate constant climate according to DIN 50017-KK. 
Requirements: After completion of the test the film must permit proper removal, its protective 
function must not be impaired. Irreversible effects on the paint surface such as discoloration, loss 
of glossiness or swelling are impermissible. 
After removal of the film the following changes in the paint surface are impermissible: 
─
yellowing, 
─
white discoloration of the clear coat 
─
cracking, 
─
blistering, 
─
photochemical reactions that destroy the complete paint structure in secondary reactions, 
─
significant, visually perceptible color change of the paint according to DIN EN 20105-A02. 
The reflectometer value of the paint surface shall be > 65 according to DIN 67530 and PV 3.2.4 
(measuring angle 20°) without polishing. 
3.20.4 
Artificial weathering in dry heat (Arizona simulation) 


Page 7 
QP R 015: 2005-02 
Test according to PV 3929. Test sheet metals with standard production clear coats with complete 
paint structure are used. 
─
test sequence: Weather-O-Meter test with xenon arc light testing device (e.g. ATLAS Ci 5000), 
test duration corresponding to 6 month-cycles of Florida open-air weathering, then 72 h 
moisture-condensate constant climate according to DIN 50017-KK. 
Requirements: as section 3.20.2. 
4 
Referenced standards∗
PV 3.2.4 
Paints and Varnishes; Determining the Reflectometer Value Acc. to DIN 67530 
PV 3.10.3 
Paints and Varnishes; Test of Resistance to Caustic Solutions 
PV 3.10.5 
Paints and Varnishes; Testing of Resistance to Industrial Grade Dust 
Removers 
PV 3.11.1 
Paints and Varnishes; Testing of Resistance to Premium Gasoline 
PV 3.11.2 
Paints and Varnishes; Resistance Test against FAM Test Fuel 
PV 3.11.3 
Paints and Varnishes; Testing of Resistance to Diesel Fuel 
PV 3.12.1 
Paints and Varnishes; Testing of Oil Resistance 
PV 3.13.2 
Paints and Varnishes; Testing of Resistance to Open Air Weathering 
PV 3.16.4 
Paints and Varnishes; Testing of Acid Resistance 
PV 4.6.3 
Farben und Lacke; Chemikalienbeständigkeit von Automobildecklacken; 
Gradientenofenmethode (Paints and Varnishes; Chemical Resistance of 
Automotive Top Coats; Gradient Oven Method – only available in German) 
PV 14.06 
Sealing and Underbody Protection Material; Test of Temperature Resistance 
PV 3929 
Non-Metallic Materials; Weather Aging in Dry, Hot Climate 
PV 3930 
Non-Metallic Materials; Weathering in Moist, Hot Climate 
TL 766 
Brake Fluid; Material Requirements 
TL 774 
Ethylene Glycol-Based Coolant Additive; Material Requirements 
TL 521 07 
SAE 15W-40 Factory Fill Engine Oil; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 521 46 
Central Hydraulic System Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 521 62 
Factory-Fill-for-Life Automatic Transmission Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 501 56 
Process Material, General; Conditions for Sampling and Shipment 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
VDA 621-412 
Anstrichtechnische Prüfungen, Chemikalienbeständigkeit von Kraftfahrzeug-
Lackierungen (Tests for Coating Methods, Resistance to Chemicals of 
Automotive Paints – only available in German) 
DIN 50017 
Atmospheres and their Technical Application; Condensation Water Test 
Atmospheres 
DIN 51604-1 
FAM Testing Fluid for Polymer Materials; Composition and Requirements 
DIN 53370 
Testing of Plastic Films, Determination of the Thickness by Mechanical Feeling 
DIN 53815 
Testing of Textiles; Definitions for the Simple Tensile Test 


Page 8 
QP R 015: 2005-02 
DIN 67530 
Reflectometer as a Means for Gloss Assessment of Plane Surfaces of Paint 
Coatings and Plastics 
DIN EN 228 
Automotive Fuels – Unleaded Petrol – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 590 
Automotive Fuels – Diesel – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 14214 
Automotive Fuels – Fatty Acid Methyl Esters (FAME) for Diesel Engines – 
Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 20105-A02 Textiles – Tests for Colour Fastness – Part A02: Grey Scale for Assessing 
Change in Colour 
DIN EN ISO 527-2 Plastics – Determination of Tensile Properties, Part 2: Test Conditions for 
Moulding and Extrusion Plastics 
                                               
∗ In this Section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
