# SAE J 1960.pdf

SAE Technical Standards Board Rules provide that: “This report is published by SAE to advance the state of technical and engineering sciences. The use of this report is entirely
voluntary, and its applicability and suitability for any particular use, including any patent infringement arising therefrom, is the sole responsibility of the user.”
SAE reviews each technical report at least every five years at which time it may be reaffirmed, revised, or cancelled. SAE invites your written comments and suggestions.
Copyright © 2004 SAE International
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of SAE.
TO PLACE A DOCUMENT ORDER:
Tel: 
877-606-7323 (inside USA and Canada)
Tel: 
724-776-4970 (outside USA)
Fax: 
724-776-0790
Email:   
custsvc@sae.org
SAE WEB ADDRESS:
http://www.sae.org
SURFACE
VEHICLE
STANDARD
J1960
REV.
OCT2004
Issued
1989-06
Revised
2004-10
Superseding J1960 AUG2003
Accelerated Exposure of Automotive Exterior Materials Using a Controlled
Irradiance Water-Cooled Xenon Arc Apparatus
1.
Scope
1.1
This test method specifies the operating procedures for a controlled irradiance, water-cooled xenon arc
apparatus used for the accelerated exposure of various automotive exterior materials.
This standard is limited to the models of xenon arc test apparatus specified in the Section on Apparatus.
All other models of xenon arc test apparatus must use SAE J2527 to perform the test conditions specified in
SAE J1960.  SAE J2527 is the performance standard based on the test parameters of SAE J1960.  Use of
xenon arc test apparatus to perform SAE J2527 must be agreed upon by contractual parties.
1.2
The sample preparation, test durations, and performance evaluation procedures are covered in material
specifications of the different automotive manufacturers.
2.
References
2.1
Applicable Publications—The following publications form a part of the specification to the extent specified
herein.  Unless otherwise indicated, the latest revision of SAE publications shall apply
2.1.1
SAE PUBLICATION—Available from SAE, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001.
SAE J1545—Instrumental Color Difference Measurement for Exterior Finishes, Textiles, and Colored Trim
2.1.2
ASTM PUBLICATION—Available from ASTM, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959.
ASTM D 859—Standard Test Method for Silica in Water
ASTM D 4517—Standard Test Method for Low-Level Total Silica in High-Purity Water by Flameless
Atomic Absorption Spectroscopy
ASTM G 155—Standard Practice for Operating Xenon Arc Light Apparatus for Exposure of Non-Metallic
Materials
Copyright SAE International 
Provided by IHS under license with SAE
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


SAE J1960 Revised OCT2004
-2-
3.
Definitions
3.1
Black Panel Thermometer, n
3.1.1
A temperature measuring device, the sensing unit of which is coated with black enamel designed to absorb
most of the radiant energy encountered in fade/weathering testing.
3.1.1.1
This device provides an estimation of the maximum temperature a specimen might attain during exposure
to natural or artificial light.
3.2
Center Wavelength, n—The specified wavelength for bandpass filters; the wavelength midway between the
half power points (e.g., 340 nm ± 2 nm).
3.3
Color Change, n—As used in fade-weathering testing, a change in color of any kind (whether a change in
hue, saturation, or lightness).
3.4
Half Power Bandpass, n—The interval between wavelengths at which transmittance is 50% of peak.  (It
should not exceed 20 nm for a narrow bandpass filter.)
3.5
Irradiance, n. (E)—The incident radiant flux per unit area of a surface. (W m–2)
3.6
Irradiance, Controlled, n—The maintenance by closed loop feedback of a preselected irradiance throughout
a designated exposure interval.
3.7
Irradiance, Spectral, n—(Eλ) Irradiance per wavelength interval.  (Wm–2 nm–1).
3.8
Irradiance, Total, n—(W m–2) Irradiance integrated over all wavelengths of a light source on an exposed
surface.
3.9
Irradiation, n—See radiant exposure.
3.10 Long-Arc Xenon, n—A xenon arc in which the length of the arc between electrodes is greater than the
diameter of the envelope enclosing the arc.
3.11 Peak Wavelength, n—The wavelength of peak transmission (e.g., 340 nm).
3.12 Radiant Exposure, n—The time integral of irradiance (Jm–2).
3.13 Radiant Exposure, Spectral, n—The time integral of spectral Irradiance (Jm–2 nm–1).
3.14 Reference Plastic, n—A clear polystyrene plastic standard selected for exposure as a check on a test
apparatus and operating conditions.
3.15 Sample, Laboratory, n—A portion of material taken to represent the lot sample, or the original material, and
used in the laboratory as a source of test specimens.
3.16 Specimen, n—A specific portion of a material or a laboratory sample on which a test is performed or that is
selected for that purpose.
3.17 Spectral Power Distribution, n—The relative power emitted by a source as a function of wavelength.
Copyright SAE International 
Provided by IHS under license with SAE
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


SAE J1960 Revised OCT2004
-3-
4.
Significance and Use
4.1
This test method is designed to accelerate extreme environmental conditions encountered outside a vehicle
such as sunlight, heat, and moisture (in the form of humidity, condensation or rain) for the purpose of predicting
the weatherability of automotive materials.
5.
Apparatus
5.1
A more complete description of the apparatuses listed below may be found in ASTM G 155.
5.2
The apparatus employed utilizes a water-cooled xenon arc lamp as the source of radiation and should be one
of the following:
5.2.1
TYPE AH—A controlled irradiance apparatus in which the radiant energy source is vertically located at the
central axis of a specimen rack.  The specimen rack shall rotate at 1 rpm ± 0.1 rpm and shall be of the three-
tiered, inclined type having a center segment of 648 mm ± 6 mm (25.5 in ± 0.25 in) outside diameter centered
on the xenon arc lamp.  The top and bottom segments shall be 511 mm ± 6 mm (20 in ± 0.25 in)  outside
diameter, positioned 28 degrees ± 2 degrees from the vertical.  Each segment shall accommodate 152 mm
(6 in) specimen holders.  The apparatus shall provide for control of dry bulb and black panel temperature,
relative humidity, and irradiance at 340 nm1.
5.2.2
TYPE BH—A controlled irradiance apparatus in which the radiant energy source is vertically located at the
central axis of one of the following two racks:
5.2.2.1
The specimen rack shall rotate at 1 rpm ± 0.1 rpm and shall be of the three-tiered, inclined type having a
center segment of 965 mm ± 6 mm (38 in ± 0.25 in) outside diameter centered on the xenon arc lamp.  The
top and bottom segments shall be 842 mm ± 6 mm (33.16 in ± 0.25 in) outside diameter, positioned          22
degrees ± 2 degrees from the vertical.  Each tier shall accommodate 152 mm (6 in) specimen holders.  The
apparatus shall provide for automatic control of temperature, relative humidity, and irradiance at      340
nm1.  All specimen exposure openings may be used.
5.2.2.2
The specimen rack shall rotate at 1 rpm ± 0.1 rpm and shall be of the two-tiered, inclined type, 965.2 mm ±
6 mm (38 in ± 0.25 in) outside diameter in the center.  The top and bottom segments shall be 872.5 mm ± 6
mm (34.35 in ± 0.25 in) outside diameter positioned 11 degrees ± 2 degrees from the vertical.  The rack
shall be positioned so that the exposure area is centered on the xenon lamp.  Each tier shall accommodate
254 mm (10 in) long specimen holders.  The apparatus shall provide for automatic control of temperature,
relative humidity, and irradiance at 340 nm1.  When using this two-tiered specimen rack, the test specimens
shall not be placed in positions 1 and 8 (see Figure 1).
5.2.3
The xenon arc employed shall be of the “long-arc” water-cooled type.  It shall employ cylindrical inner and
outer optical filters to direct the flow of cooling water and to provide a selected spectral power distribution.
5.2.4
Distilled or deionized water shall be recirculated past the burner at a flow rate sufficient to remove excess
heat.  Passing water through a cartridge demineralizer installed in the recirculation line just ahead of the
lamp minimizes contamination of the quartz envelope of the burner.  A heat exchange unit shall be used to
cool the recirculated lamp water.
1.
The Ci35, Ci35A Xenon Arc Weather-Ometer® or equivalent with factory installed air heater meets the requirements of Type AH.  The Ci65 
and Ci65A Xenon Arc Weather-Ometer® or equivalent with factory installed air heater meets the requirements of Type BH.
Copyright SAE International 
Provided by IHS under license with SAE
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


SAE J1960 Revised OCT2004
-4-
FIGURE 1—TWO-TIERED INCLINE SPECIMEN RACK
6.
Apparatus Setup
6.1
To insure repeatability of tests, maintain and calibrate the apparatus to manufacturer's specifications and as
described in Appendix A and B.  Appendix A contains additional maintenance instructions and replacement
schedules, and Appendix B describes the use of a reference plastic to determine if the xenon arc apparatus is
operating properly within the desired range.
6.1.1
The input voltage must be between 215 to 250 V.
6.1.2
Water for lamp cooling must be purified so that it is free of silica and has no more than 20 ppm total dissolved
solids.
6.1.2.1
Water used for the specimen spray and humidification system shall leave no objectionable deposits or
stains on the exposed specimens.  It is strongly recommended that the water contain a maximum of 1-ppm
solids and a maximum of 0.2-ppm silica.  Silica levels should be determined using ASTM procedures
D 859 or D 4517.  A combination of deionization and reverse osmosis treatment can effectively produce
water with the desired purity.
6.1.3
Install the specimen spray and the rack spray units.
Copyright SAE International 
Provided by IHS under license with SAE
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


SAE J1960 Revised OCT2004
-5-
6.1.4
Fit the xenon arc burner with a quartz inner filter and a “Type S” borosilicate outer filter.
6.1.5
Set the operation switches/controls as follows in Table 1:
If the proper humidity cannot be achieved, set the air heater switch to dark-on cycle.
6.1.6
Set the thumb wheel controls as follows in Table 2:
6.1.6.1
These are suggested settings to obtain the specified humidity level.  Because of ambient conditions in the
room containing the apparatus, it may be necessary to adjust the wet bulb depression and/or the
conditioning water temperature settings.
6.1.7
Choose the program cycle which provides 120 min of light and 60 min of dark in the following cycle: 40 min of
light followed by 20 min of light and front specimen spray, followed by 60 min of light, followed by 60 min of
dark with both back and front spray and repeating.  The test cycle is shown in Table 3.
NOTE—Users of instruments that employ a program logic controller (PLC) should consult their manual for
the appropriate program cycle.  Others should use a #180 cam.
TABLE 1—OPERATION SWITCHES/CONTROLS
SWITCH
SETTING
Black panel/ambient air
Black panel
Wattage adjustment
Automatic
Irradiation/timed
Irradiation
Countdown meter
Set to required kJ m–2 nm–1 at 340 nm
Lamp ignition
On
Lamp cooling water
On
Fixed air valve
Off
Humidifier
On
Water heater
On
Air heater
On
Specimen spray
On
Rack spray
On
Under the circuit breakers/mode switch cover, set the following:
Air heater on cycle
Light-on cycle
Rack spray light cycle
Off
Test chamber/high temperature adjust.
75 °C
TABLE 2—THUMB WHEEL CONTROLS
Controls
Dark
Cycle
Light
Cycle
Automatic/irradiance
—
0.55 W m–2 nm–1 at 340 nm
Black panel temperature
  38 °C
70 °C
Wet bulb depression (See 6.1.6.1)
0.00 °C
12 °C
Conditioning water
  40 °C
45 °C
Copyright SAE International 
Provided by IHS under license with SAE
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


SAE J1960 Revised OCT2004
-6-
6.1.8
Operate the apparatus to maintain the following tolerances listed in Table 4.  If the actual operating conditions
do not agree with the machine settings after the equipment has stabilized, discontinue the test and correct
the cause of the disagreement before continuing. 
NOTE 1—To maintain dry bulb tolerance, blower speed adjustment may be required.
NOTE 2—For instruments equipped with automatic blower control, for this test manufacturer recommends
that the control be switched to the manual mode.
6.1.8.1
The tolerances do not apply during the spray portion of the cycle.
6.1.9
Adjust the temperature of the lamp cooling water to provide sufficient cooling but prevent condensation from
forming on the lamp assembly.  Suggest 50 °C for cooling water and 70 ° C for high temperature cut out.
7.
Test Procedure
7.1
Prepare a specimen to be exposed to fit the specimen holder being used.
7.1.1
Specimen sizes must conform to the size of the approved specimen holder.  Specimens that exceed these
sizes may not give proper exposure results.  The correct means of mounting odd sized specimens can be
obtained from the automotive company for which the material is being tested.
7.1.2
Approved frames for the three-tier rack are the SL-3T and the CD-3T only.
7.1.3
Approved frames for the two-tier rack are the SL, CD, SL-X, and the CD-4 only.
7.2
Insert the specimen in the specimen holder and attach the spring-loaded holding device.
NOTE—If the apparatus has an inclined panel rack (supplied with attached clips), the samples must fit the
provided spaces.
7.3
Fill all unused slots with an inert non-reflective material to maintain desired airflow.  Anodized aluminum panels
are an example.
TABLE 3—TEST CYCLE
Cycle
Segment
Light
Dark
Spray
Inner
Filter
Outer
Filter
1
N/A
60 min
Front and back
Quartz
S-Boro
2
40 min
N/A
None
Quartz
S-Boro
3
20 min
N/A
Front
Quartz
S-Boro
4
60 min
N/A
None
Quartz
S-Boro
TABLE 4—TOLERANCES
Controls
Dark
Cycle
Light
Cycle
Automatic irradiance
    —
                  ± 0.01 W m–2
Black panel
         ± 2 °C
         ± 2 °C
Dry bulb
38 °C ± 2 °C
47 °C ± 2 °C
Relative humidity
95% ± 5%
50% ± 5%
Conditioning water
         ± 4 °C
         ± 4 °C
Radiant exposure
See applicable specification.
See applicable specification.
Copyright SAE International 
Provided by IHS under license with SAE
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


SAE J1960 Revised OCT2004
-7-
NOTE—High reflectance material may effect the operation of the equipment.  Refer to the manufacturer’s
instructions for proper operation of the equipment.
7.4
After setting up the instrument to run for the required radiant exposure (kJm–2) at 340 nm, start the test at the
beginning of a dark cycle.  See applicable material specification.
7.5
Report the change in color or any other property as outlined in SAE J1545.
7.6
Exposure report.
7.6.1
A copy of the exposure report (Figure 2) must be included with each exposed specimen being submitted for
approval.
Copyright SAE International 
Provided by IHS under license with SAE
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


SAE J1960 Revised OCT2004
-8-
FIGURE 2—XENON ARC REFERENCE MATERIAL CONTROL CHART
Copyright SAE International 
Provided by IHS under license with SAE
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


SAE J1960 Revised OCT2004
-9-
8.
Notes
8.1
Marginal Indicia—The change bar (l) located in the left margin is for the convenience of the user in locating
areas where revisions have been made to the previous issue of the report.  An (R) symbol to the left of the
document title indicates a complete revision of the report.
PREPARED BY THE SAE TEXTILES AND FLEXIBLE PLASTICS COMMITTEE
Copyright SAE International 
Provided by IHS under license with SAE
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


SAE J1960 Revised OCT2004
-10-
APPENDIX A
MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTIONS AND REPLACEMENT SCHEDULES
A.1
Maintenance
A.1.1 Test Chamber—The frequency of cleaning will vary with water quality.  However, the chamber should be
cleaned at least once a month with a stainless steel cleaning agent and flushed with deionized water.  Do NOT
use cleaning agents containing chlorine.
A.1.2 Conditioning Chamber—The frequency of cleaning will vary with the water and air quality in the laboratory.
However, the chamber should be drained once a month and flushed with deionized water to remove sediment.
A.1.3 Lamp Assembly—Frequency of cleaning will vary with water quality.  However, at least once each week wipe
the outer surface of the outer filter with alcohol and a soft cloth.  If deposits cannot be removed, replace the
filter.
A.1.4 Quartz Light Rod—Clean weekly the end of the light rod with alcohol and a soft cloth.
A.1.5 Black Panel Sensor—Polishing monthly, using a good quality automotive polish, should be adequate.  The
need for more frequent polishing may indicate a problem.  For resolution, contact the manufacturer.
A.1.6 Spray Nozzles—Check daily for any signs of clogging.  If continual clogging occurs, additional filters may be
necessary in the distilled water lines supplying the instrument.
A.2
Replacement Schedule
A.2.1 Lamp assembly and related parts.
A.2.1.1 Replace the inner filter when the specified irradiance level can no longer be achieved or after a maximum of
1000 h of operation.
A.2.1.2 Replace the outer filter when the specified irradiance level can no longer be achieved or after a maximum of
1000 h of operation.
A.2.1.3 Replace the burner tube when the specified irradiance level can no longer be achieved or when the black
panel temperature can no longer be controlled.
A.2.1.4 Replacement of the interference filter located in the light monitoring system after 9000 h of operation in the
light cycle or 18 months of use, whichever comes first.  Earlier replacement may become necessary if after
replacement of lamp and filters, the wattage level does not return to normal.  Refer to the operators manual.
A.2.2 Replace the black panel sensor when local surface luster can no longer be maintained or when bare metal can
be seen.
A.2.3 Inspect the wet bulb wick weekly and replace when discoloration or mineral deposits are observed.
A.3
Calibration Checks
A.3.1 Check daily the switches and thumb wheel controls for proper settings.
A.3.2 Calibrate the apparatus every two weeks following the procedures detailed in the operating manual provided by
the manufacturer.  It is suggested that the calibration be performed on the same day of the week.
Copyright SAE International 
Provided by IHS under license with SAE
Not for Resale
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,,,``-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
