# SAE_J1885-1992_用可控制不发光的水冷氙弧灯进行汽车内饰的快速暴露试验.pdf

SAE Technical Standards Board Rules provide that: “This report is published by SAE to advance the state of technical and engineering sciences. The use of this report is entirely
voluntary, and its applicability and suitability for any particular use, including any patent infringement arising therefrom, is the sole responsibility of the user.”
SAE reviews each technical report at least every five years at which time it may be reaffirmed, revised, or cancelled. SAE invites your written comments and suggestions.
QUESTIONS REGARDING THIS DOCUMENT: (412) 772-8512 FAX: (412) 776-0243
TO PLACE A DOCUMENT ORDER; (412) 776-4970 FAX: (412) 776-0790
http:\\www.sae.org
Copyright 1992 Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
All rights reserved.
Printed in U.S.A.
SURFACE
VEHICLE
400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001 STANDARD
J1885
REV.
MAR92
Issued
1987-08
Revised
1992-03
Superseding J1885 AUG87
(R) ACCELERATED EXPOSURE OF AUTOMOTIVE INTERIOR TIRM COMPONENTS USING A
CONTROLLED IRRADIANCE WATER COOLED XENON-ARC APPARATUS
This document is equivalent to ISO/DIS 105-B06 option 5.
1.
Scope—This test method specifies the operating procedures for a controlled irradiance, water cooled xenon-
arc apparatus used for the accelerated exposure of various automotive interior trim components.
Test durations, as well as any exceptions to the sample preparation and performance evaluation procedures
contained in this document, are covered in material specifications of the different automotive manufacturers.
2.
References
2.1
Applicable Publications—The following publications form a part of this specification to the extent specified
herein.  The latest issue of SAE publications shall apply.
2.1.1
SAE PUBLICATIONS—Available from SAE, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001.
SAE J1545 JUN86—Instrumental Color Difference Measurement for Exterior Finishes, Textiles, and
Colored Trim
2.1.2
ASTM PUBLICATIONS—Available from ASTM, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959.
ASTM G 26—Standard Practice for Operating Light-Exposure Apparatus (Xenon-Arc Type) With and
Without Water for Exposure of Nonmetallic Materials
2.1.3
OTHER PUBLICATIONS
AATCC Evaluation Procedure 1 (1987)
3.
Definitions
3.1
Black Panel Thermometer, n.—A temperature measuring device, the sensing unit of which is a stainless
steel panel coated with black material designed to absorb most of the radiant energy encountered in fade/
weathering testing.
NOTE—This device provides an estimation of the maximum temperature a specimen may attain during
exposure to natural or artificial light.
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services


SAE J1885 Revised MAR92
-2-
3.2
Blue Wool Lightfastness Standard, n.—One of a group of dyed fabrics used to determine the amount of
light, or combined light, heat, and moisture to which a specimen is exposed during fade/weathering testing.
3.3
Center Wavelength, n.—The specified wavelength for bandpass filters; the wavelength midway between the
half power points e.g., 340 nm ± 2 nm. 
3.4
Color Change, n.—As used in fade/weathering testing, a change in color of any kind (whether a change in
hue, saturation, or lightness).
3.5
Half Power Bandpass, n.—The interval between wavelengths at which transmittance is 50% of peak.  (It
should not exceed 20 nm for a narrow bandpass filter.)
3.6
Irradiance, Controlled, n.—The maintenance by closed loop feedback of a preselected irradiance throughout
a designated exposure interval.
3.7
Irradiance, Spectral, n.—The radiant energy within a specified wavelength interval that falls upon a unit area
of exposed surface (W/m2 x nm)
3.8
Irradiance, Total, n.—Radiant energy integrated over all wavelengths falling upon a unit area of exposure at a
point in time expressed in watts per square meter (W/m2).
3.9
Irradiation, n.—See radiant exposure.
3.10 Long-Arc Xenon, n.—A xenon arc in which the length of the arc between electrodes is greater than the
diameter of the envelope enclosing the arc.  
3.11 Peak Wavelength, n.—The wavelength of peak transmission, e.g., 340 nm.
3.12 Radiant Exposure, n.—The time integral of irradiance expressed in joules per square meter (J/m2).
3.13 Radiant Exposure, Spectral, n.—The integration of spectral irradiance with respect to time.
3.14 Reference Fabric, n.—One or more blue wool lightfastness standards selected for exposure as a check on a
test apparatus and operating conditions.
3.15 Reference Plastic, n.—A clear polystyrene plastic standard selected for exposure as check on a test
apparatus and operating conditions.  This reference material is normally used for long-term exposures.
3.16 Sample, Laboratory, n.—A portion of material taken to represent the lot sample, or the original material, and
used in the laboratory as a source of test specimens.
3.17 Specimen, n.—A specific portion of a material or a laboratory sample upon which a test is performed or which
is selected for that purpose.
3.18 Spectral Power Distribution, n.—The variation of energy due to the source over the wavelength span of the
emitted radiation.
4.
Significance and Use
4.1
This test method is designed to simulate extreme environmental conditions encountered inside vehicle due to
sunlight, heat, and humidity for the purpose of predicting the performance of automotive interior trim materials.
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services


SAE J1885 Revised MAR92
-3-
5.
Equipment
5.1
A more complete description of the following equipment may be found in ASTM G 26.
5.2
The equipment employed utilizes a water cooled xenon-arc lamp as the source of radiation and should be one
of the following:
5.2.1
TYPE AH1—A controlled irradiance apparatus in which the radiant energy source is vertically located at the
center axis of a specimen rack.  The specimen rack shall rotate at 1 rpm ± 0.1 rpm and shall be of the three-
tiered, inclined type having a center segment of 648 mm ± 6 mm (25.5 in ± 0.25 in) outside diameter
centered on the xenon-arc lamp.  The top and bottom segments shall be 511 mm ± 6 mm (20 in ± 0.25 in)
outside diameter, positioned 28 degrees ± 2 degrees from the vertical.  Each segment shall accommodate
152 mm (6 in) specimen holders.  The apparatus shall provide for automatic control of temperature, relative
humidity, and irradiance at 340 nm.
5.2.2
TYPE BH1—A controlled irradiance apparatus in which the radiant energy source is vertically located at the
central axis of the following two racks:
5.2.2.1
The specimen rack shall rotate at 1 rpm ± 0.1 rpm and shall be of the three-tiered, inclined type having a
center segment of 965 mm ± 6 mm (38 in ± 0.25 in) outside diameter centered on the xenon-arc lamp.  The
top and bottom segments shall be 842 mm ± 6 mm (33.16 in ± 0.25 in) outside diameter, positioned
22 degrees ± 2 degrees from the vertical.  Each tier shall accommodate 152 mm (6 in) specimen holders.
The apparatus shall provide for automatic control of temperature, relative humidity, and irradiance at
340 nm.  All specimen exposure openings may be used. 
5.2.2.2
The specimen rack shall rotate at 1 rpm ± 0.1 rpm and shall be of the two-tiered, inclined type, 965.2 mm ±
6 mm (38 in ± 0.25 in) outside diameter in the center.  The top and bottom segments shall be 872.5 mm ±
6 mm vertical.  The rack shall be positioned so that the exposure area is centered on the xenon lamp.
Each tier shall accommodate 254 mm (10 in) long specimen holders. The apparatus shall provide for
automatic control of temperature, relative humidity, and irradiance at 340 nm.  When using this two-tiered
specimen rack, test specimens shall not be placed in positions 1 and 8.  (See Figure 1.)
5.2.3
The xenon-arcs employed shall be of the "long-arc" water cooled type.  They shall employ cylindrical inner
and outer optical filters to direct the flow of cooling water and to provide a selected spectral power
distribution.
5.2.4
Distilled or deionized water (solids content less than 20 ppm) shall be recirculated past the burner at a flow
rate sufficient to remove excess heat.  Passing water through a cartridge demineralizer installed in the
recirculation line just ahead of the lamp minimizes contamination of the quartz envelope of the burner.  A
heat exchange unit shall be used to cool the recirculated lamp water.
6.
Apparatus Set-Up
6.1
To insure repeatability of tests, maintain and calibrate the apparatus to manufacturer's specifications, and as
described in Appendices A, B, and C.  Appendix A contains additional maintenance instructions and
replacement schedules, and Appendix B and C describe the use of reference materials to determine if the
xenon-arc apparatus is operating within the desired range.  Appendix C provides an alternative to the method
described in Appendix B using a polystyrene reference plastic suitable for use during long-term exposures and
requires less frequent interruption of machine operation.  Contractual agreement will determine which
method(s) will be used.
1.
The Ci35 Xenon-Arc Weather Ometer® or equivalent with factory installed air heater meets the requirements of Type AH.  The Ci65 Xenon-
Arc Weather-Ometer® or equivalent with factory installed air heater meets the requirements of Type BH.  These apparatuses are available 
from Atlas Electric Devices Company, 4114 North Ravenswood Avenue, Chicago, IL 60613.
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services


SAE J1885 Revised MAR92
-4-
FIGURE 1—TWO-TIER INCLINED SPECIMEN RACK C165
6.1.1
The input voltage must be between 215 to 250 V.
6.1.2
Water for humidification and lamp cooling must be purified so that it is free of silica and has no more than
20 ppm total dissolved solids.
6.1.3
Remove and cap the specimen spray unit.  Turn off the rack spray unit with the valve provided.
NOTE—While the specimen spray can be turned off through a switch on the control panel, it is
recommended that the specimen spray assembly be removed and the pipe capped to prevent
accidental spraying of the test samples.
6.1.4
Fit the xenon-arc burner with quartz inner filter and Type S borosilicate outer filter.
6.1.5
Set the operation switches as follows in Table 1:
TABLE 1—OPERATION SWITCH SETTINGS
Switch
Setting
Black Panel Ambient Air
Black Panel
Wattage Adjustment
Automatic
Countdown Switch
Irradiation
Lamp Ignition
On
Fixed Air Valve
Off
Humidifier
On
Water Heater
On
Air Heater
On(1)
1. The Air Heater selector switch, under the cover labeled “Circuit Breakers/
Mode Switches,” should be set to Light/Dark Cycle.  If proper humidity during 
the light cycle cannot be maintained, set to Dark Cycle.  Only one air heater 
should be used on devices equipped with two air heaters.  The test chamber 
High Temperature Adjust switch should be set to 72 °C.
Specimen Spray
Off
Rack Spray
Off
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services


SAE J1885 Revised MAR92
-5-
6.1.6
Set the thumb wheel controls as follows in Table 2:
6.1.7
Set cycle that provides 3.8 h light and 1.0 h dark.
6.1.8
Operate the equipment to maintain the conditions in Table 3.  If the actual operating conditions do not agree
with the machine settings after the equipment has stabilized, discontinue the test and identify the cause of
the disagreement.
6.1.9
Adjust the temperature of the lamp cooling water to provide sufficient cooling, but prevent condensation from
forming on the lamp assembly.  Suggest 60 °C for cooling water, and 70 °C for high temperature water cut-
out.
7.
Test Procedure
7.1
Prepare the specimens to be exposed to fit the specimen holder being used.
7.2
Specimen sizes must conform to the size of the specimen holder(s)2 supplied by the manufacturer for use with
the equipment.  Specimens that exceed these sizes may not give proper exposure results.  Instructions for
TABLE 2—THUMB WHEEL CONTROL SETTINGS
Dark
Cycle
Light
Cycle
Automatic Irradiance
—
0.55 w/m2 at 340 nm
Black Panel Temperature
38 °C
89 °C
Wet Bulb Depression(1)
1. NOTE—The wet bulb depression setting indicated is a suggested setting to 
obtain the specified humidity level.  It may be necessary to adjust this setting 
due to ambient conditions in the room containing the equipment.
0 °C
12 °C (Nominal)
Conditioning Water
40 °C
63 °C
“A” Series Equipment
Automatic Dry Bulb Temperature(2)
2. Set Light Cycle dry bulb control switch to automatic.
62 °C
Cycle Programmer
Program 2 or 3
TABLE 3—EQUIPMENT OPERATING CONDITIONS
Dark
Cycle
Light
Cycle
Automatic Irradiance
0.55 w/m2 ± 0.01 w/m2 at 340 nm
Black Panel Temperature
38 °C ± 2 °C
89 °C ± 3 °C
Dry Bulb Tolerance(1)
1.
Note—It may be necessary to adjust the blower speed to maintain the specified dry bulb 
temperature.
38 °C ± 2 °C
62 °C ± 2 °C
Relative Humidity
95% ± 5%
50% ± 5%
Conditioning Water
40 °C ± 4 °C
63 °C ± 4 °C
Radiant Exposure
See Applicable Specification
See Applicable Specification
2.
Specimen holders SL-3T, CD-3T, SL, CD, and CD-4 have been found to be suitable.  Frames other than these can be agreed upon between  
the contractual parties.
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services


SAE J1885 Revised MAR92
-6-
mounting parts or portions of a part can be obtained from the responsible engineering group.
7.3
Back interior textiles (body cloth, carpet, vinyl coated fabrics, etc.) with white cardboard.3  Specimens other
than interior textiles that do not completely fill the exposure area of the specimen holder are also backed with
white cardboard.
7.4
Insert specimen in holder and secure.  Under no circumstances should the face side of the sample be closer to
the arc than the front side of the specimen holder.
7.5
Fill all unused slots with specimen holders filled with white cardboard3 to maintain desired air flow.  Cardboard
blanks should be changed when noticeable physical distortion occurs.
7.6
Expose specimens, beginning at the end of a dark cycle, for the required radiant exposure (kilojoules per
square meter [kJ/m2]) measured at the central wavelength of 340 nm.  See applicable material specification.
NOTE—Care should be taken to avoid mixing potentially incompatible specimens in the same machine load,
i.e., textiles should not be exposed together with foam backed textiles, foams, or plastics.
Once exposure has been initiated, equipment operation should not be interrupted more than once daily.
Additional interruptions, e.g., opening the chamber door during the course of daily operation, may cause
variation in test results.
8.
Evaluating and Reporting the Degree of Fade 
8.1
The degree of fade should be evaluated and reported as specified between the contractual parties.  One or
more of the following methods may be specified:
8.1.1
INSTRUMENTAL MEASUREMENT
8.1.1.1
Color difference values in CIELAB units are obtained by instrumentally measuring the specimen before
and after a specified amount of radiant exposure.  The procedure used for specimen measurement will
conform to that specified in Appendix B.
8.1.2
 VISUAL ASSESSMENT
8.1.2.1
Assign colorfastness ratings using the AATCC Gray Scale for Color Change in accordance with AATCC
Evaluation Procedure 1 (1987).
8.1.2.2
 Using the viewing conditions specified in AATCC Evaluation Procedure 1 (1987), quantify the color
change using the following terminology:
a.
NONE—No change in hue, lightness, or saturation.
b.
SLIGHT—A change in lightness and/or saturation which can be determined only upon close
examination but no change in hue.
c.
NOTICEABLE—A change in lightness and/or saturation which can easily be seen and/or a change in
hue.
d.
SEVERE—An extreme change in lightness, saturation, and/or hue.
3.
Franklin, Grain long-felt side up 110/500 white index, Stock Number 06506 made by Union Camp or 9016 White Bristol Card Stock have been 
found suitable for this purpose.  Franklin white index is usually available from local office supply or art supply stores.  Weight of card stock 
should be sufficient to prevent warping.
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services


SAE J1885 Revised MAR92
-7-
9.
Exposure Report
9.1
A copy of the Exposure Control/Report Form (Figure 2)4 indicating the color change of the exposed reference
material in CIELAB color difference units must accompany each exposed specimen being submitted for
approval. If any one of the color difference data points is outside the specified tolerance (control limits), the
cause and corrective action must be indicated in the space provided.
9.2
The Exposure Control/Report Form shall include the following additional information:
9.2.1
Laboratory Name
9.2.2
Type and serial number of exposure equipment
9.2.3
Month and Year of equipment operation represented by the control chart
9.2.4
Test method
9.2.5
Reference material(s) used
9.2.6
Frequency of operation verification, e.g., daily, three, or seven day intervals
9.2.7
Color change, target value, and tolerance, in CIELAB color difference units for the reference material(s) used
9.2.8
The monthly average color difference for the reference material(s)
9.2.9
Measured color change, in CIELAB color difference units, for reference material 1
9.2.10
Measured color change, in CIELAB color difference units, for reference material 2 (if more than one material
is used)
9.2.11
Daily record of black panel temperature
9.2.12
Daily record of dry bulb temperature
9.2.13
Sample identification
9.2.14
Total radiant exposure applied to the specimen
9.2.15
Date specimen exposure was initiated
9.2.16
Date specimen exposure was completed
4.
Copies of the Exposure Control/Report Form can be obtained from any automotive company using this procedure.
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services


SAE J1885 Revised MAR92
-8-
FIGURE 2—EXPOSURE CONTROL/REPORT FORM
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services


SAE J1885 Revised MAR92
-9-
10.
Notes
10.1 Marginal Indicia—The change bar (l) located in the left margin is for the convenience of the user in locating
areas where technical revisions have been made to the previous issue of the report.  An (R) symbol to the left
of the document title indicates a complete revision of the report.
PREPARED BY THE SAE TEXTILE AND FLEXIBLE PLASTICS COMMITTEE
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services


SAE J1885 Revised MAR92
-10-
APPENDIX A
A.1
Maintenance
A.1.1 Test Chamber—The frequency of cleaning will vary with water quality.  However, the chamber must be
cleaned at least once a month with a stainless steel cleaning agent and flushed with deionized water.  Do NOT
use cleaning agents containing chlorine.
A.1.2 Conditioning Chamber—The frequency of cleaning will vary with water and air quality in the laboratory.
However, the chamber must be drained once a month and flushed with deionized water to remove sediment.
A.1.3 Lamp Assembly—Frequency of cleaning will vary with water quality.  However, at least once each week wipe
the outer surface of the outer filter with alcohol and a soft cloth.  If deposits cannot be removed, replace the
filter.
A.1.4 Quartz Light Rod—Clean weekly the end of the light rod with alcohol and soft cloth.
A.1.5 Black Panel Sensor—Polish weekly using a good quality automotive polish.
A.2
Replacement Schedule
A.2.1 Lamp Assembly and Related Parts
A.2.1.1 Replace the inner filter when the specified irradiance level can no longer be achieved or after a maximum of
1000 h of operation, and also whenever the burner tube is replaced.
A.2.1.2 Replace the outer filter when the specified irradiance level can no longer be achieved or after a maximum of
1000 h of operation.
A.2.1.3 Replace the burner tube when the specified irradiance level can no longer be achieved even after the outer
filter has been replaced.
A.2.1.4 Replace the interference filter located in the light monitoring system after 9000 light-on hours or 18 months of
use, whichever comes first.  The interference filter may require replacement sooner if the wattage level does
not return to "normal" after the burner tube and outer filter have been replaced.
A.2.2 Replace the black panel sensor when local surface luster can no longer be maintained, or when bare metal can
be seen.
A.2.3 Inspect wet bulb wick weekly and replace when discoloration or mineral deposits are observed.
A.3
Calibration Checks
A.3.1 Check the switches and thumb wheel controls daily to insure proper settings.
A.3.2 Calibrate the apparatus once each week following the procedures detailed in the operating manual provided by
the manufacturer.  If contractual agreement is to use L-4 Blue Wool as the reference material, Thursday is the
suggested calibration day.
A.3.2.1 Weekly calibration records are maintained using the recording form provided (Figure A1).  Set points may
differ depending on the model of apparatus used.  Refer to the operating manual provided with the
equipment for the exact requirements.5
5.
Copies of the calibration record chart can be obtained from any automotive company using this procedure.
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services
COPYRIGHT Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.
Licensed by Information Handling Services
