# TL152.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 50223 
February 2007 
Powder Paint for Cylinder Block and 
Crankcase 
Surface Protection Requirements 
TL 
152 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
cylinder block and crankcase, surface protection, powder paint, paint 
 
 
Page 1 of 4 
Fachverantwortung/Technical responsibility 
Normung/Standards 
 
 
K-GQL-2/2   Dr. Hasse 
Tel: +49-5361-9-42107 
K-GQL-2/2   Laudien 
K-GQL-2   Dr. Eisenberg 
E2TC/4 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
E2TC 
Terlinden 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 01.06 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification TL 152: 
2002-08: 
─ 
Referenced standards updated 
Previous issues 
1992-10, 2002-08 
1 
Scope 
This standard specifies requirements for powder paints for cylinder blocks and crankcases made 
from gray cast iron. 
2 
Description 
Powder paint acc. to TL 152 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes acc. to Volkswagen standard VW 01155. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances acc. to VW 91101. 
For complete testing 3 finished parts are required, and 4 test panels, if need be. 
The coating shall exhibit the specified surface protection, with the specified properties, over its 
entire surface. The coatings shall be free of pores, cracks, foreign matter inclusions, damage and 
other flaws that impair the corrosion protection and/or specified appearance. The layers shall have 
firm adherence to the base material. 
The production process must be designed and controlled such that functional characteristics of the 
finished part are not impaired. 
Given proper mounting, the coating shall not be damaged if this would lead to impairment of 
function and/or decrease of the specified corrosion protection. 
The surface treatment process shall ensure good machinability of the coating, i.e. there shall be no 
formation of separating layers or whiskering of the coating during processing and the cut edges 
shall neither splinter nor break out. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate.In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
Numerical notation according to ISO practice (see VW 01000). 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 152: 2007-02 
 
3.2 
Base material 
See drawing. 
3.3 
Pretreatment 
Abrasive-blasted gray cast iron, surface free of greases and oils. 
3.4 
Powder paint 
Polyester or epoxy resin basis (test by means of IR spectrum). 
3.5 
Coating thickness 
Testing according to DIN EN ISO 2178. 
Requirement: > 60 µm. 
3.6 
Color 
Jet black acc. to RAL 9005. 
3.7 
Adhesion 
Crosscut test acc. to DIN EN ISO 2409. 
Requirement: ≤ characteristic value 1. 
3.8 
Temperature resistance 
Temperature cycle test with subsequent impact test: 
─ 
240 h at (+90 ± 2) °C, 
─ 
30 min acclimatization at approx. 23 °C with subsequent evaluation acc. to Section 3.7, 
─ 
followed by 24 h at (-40 ± 3) °C, 
─ 
30 min acclimatization at approx. 23 °C with subsequent evaluation acc. to Section 3.7, 
─ 
followed by impact stress test based on DIN ISO 4532. 
There shall be no chips with a diameter greater than 4 mm or impacts that reach the base material 
following aging at elevated and low temperatures and the subsequent impact test. 
3.9 
Corrosion resistance 
3.9.1 
Resistance to corrosion cycles 
Test acc. to Test Specification PV 1210, 15 cycles with scribing based on DIN EN ISO 9227. 
Requirements: base metal corrosion Ri 0 to Ri 1 acc. to DIN EN ISO 4628-3, loss of adhesion 
d < 3 mm acc. to DIN EN ISO 4628-8. 


Page 3 
TL 152: 2007-02 
 
3.9.2 
Resistance to moisture condensate constant climate 
240 h testing in CH test atmosphere according to DIN EN ISO 6270-2. Then perform a crosscut 
test acc. to DIN EN ISO 2409. 
Requirements: no base metal corrosion, ≤ characteristic value 1. 
3.10 
Resistance to chemicals 
Only mandatory for first-sample release. Test A acc. to VDA test sheet 621-412 with operating 
fluids acc. to Table 1. 
Table 1 
Operating fluid 
Requirement 
Gasoline, premium unleaded acc. to 
DIN EN 228 
Diesel fuel acc. to DIN EN 590 
Factory-fill engine oil acc. to TL 521 07 
Automatic transmission fluid acc. to TL 521 62 
Central hydraulic system fluid acc. to TL 521 46 
Max. characteristic value 1 
Brake fluid acc. to TL 766 
Coolant according to TL 774 B, 50% 
Minor change permitted, but max. characteristic 
value 1 after 5 h resting period 
 
4 
Referenced standards* 
PV 1210 
Body and Add-on Parts; Corrosion Test 
TL 766 
Brake Fluid; Material Requirements 
TL 774 
Ethylene Glycol-Based Coolant Additive; Material Requirements  
TL 52107 
SAE 15W-40 Factory Fill Engine Oil; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 52146 
Central Hydraulic System Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 52162 
Factory-Fill-for-Life Automatic Transmission Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
VW 01155 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 91101 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN ISO 4532 
Vitreous and Porcelain Enamels - Determination of the Resistance of 
Enamelled Articles to Impact - Pistol Test 
DIN EN 228 
Automotive Fuels – Unleaded Petrol – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 590 
Automotive Fuels – Diesel – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN ISO 2178 
Non-Magnetic Coatings on Magnetic Substrates – Measurement of 
Coating Thickness – Magnetic Method 
DIN EN ISO 2409 
Paints and Varnishes – Cross-Cut Test 
                                                
* In this Section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 


Page 4 
TL 152: 2007-02 
 
DIN EN ISO 4628-3 
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings – 
Designation of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform 
Changes in Appearance – Part 3: Assessment of Degree of Rusting 
DIN EN ISO 4628-8 
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings – 
Designation of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform 
Changes in Appearance – Part 8: Assessment of Degree of Delamination 
and Corrosion around a Scribe 
DIN EN ISO 6270-2 
Paints and varnishes – Determination of Resistance to Humidity – Part 2: 
Procedure for Exposing Test Specimens in Condensation-Water 
Atmospheres 
DIN EN ISO 9227 
Corrosion Tests in Artificial Atmospheres - Salt Spray Tests 
VDA 621-412 
Anstrichtechnische 
Prüfungen; 
Chemikalienbeständigkeit 
von 
Kraftfahrzeug-Lackierungen (Tests for Coating Methods; Resistance to 
Chemicals of Motor Vehicle Paints; only available in German) 
