# TL153.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 22 3 
November 2003 
Zinc-Iron Coatings 
Requirements for Surface Protection 
TL 
153 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
zinc, iron, corrosion protection, surface protection 
 
Page  of  
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32 Koeppen 
Tel:-25803 
Frau Dr. Hasse 
Tel:-42106 
Laudien 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9.29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 12.00 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 153, 1994-10: 
 
Introduction of Cr(VI)-free conversion layers on the basis of the End-of-Life Vehicles Directive 
of the European Union (see Table 2) 
 
Replacement of the surface protection types Ofl-r600, Ofl-r605, Ofl-r610, Ofl-r620 and Ofl-r630 
by Ofl-r301 and Ofl-r302 (among other things, replacement of the low-alloy zinc coatings 
with cobalt) 
 
Scope restricted (no longer applies to joining elements) 
 
Referenced standards updated 
 
Standard restructured 
Previous issues 
1992-10; 1993-10; 1994-10 
1 
Scope 
This TL standard specifies requirements for Cr(VI)-free passivated zinc-iron coatings on ferrous 
materials and steel parts with a tensile strength of Rm  1,000 MPa according to code letter r 
specified in Volkswagen standard VW 137 50.  
These low-alloy zinc-iron coatings shall preferably be used for steel parts that are subject to 
medium corrosive loads and thermal loads > 120 °C for brief periods only. They shall not be used 
for joining elements. The surface protection types according to TL 244 shall be used for 
electroplated coatings on joining elements. 
High-strength steel parts with a tensile strength of Rm > 1,000 MPa or a surface hardness of 
> 320 HV must not be coated with these alloy coatings. 
2 
Designation 
See VW 137 50, Section 2 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
Surface protection types 
The surface protection types listed in Table 1 apply. 
 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 153: 2003-11 
 
Table 1 
Protection class 
Characteristics and appearance 
Ofl-r301 
Zinc-iron coating, Cr(VI)-free passivated, silver up to iridescent 
appearance 
Ofl-r302 
Zinc-iron coating, Cr(VI)-free passivated and sealed, black appearance 
 
For the replacement of the invalid surface protection types containing Cr(VI), see Table 2. 
Table 2 
Surface protection type no longer 
permitted for new designs –  
contains Cr(VI) 
Replacement surface protection type 
prescribed for new designs –  
Cr(VI)-free 
Ofl-r600 
Ofl-r672 (TL 244) 
Ofl-r605 
Ofl-r677 (TL 244) 
Ofl-r610 
Ofl-r620 
Ofl-r630 
 
Ofl-r301or Ofl-r3021) 
1) If the component needs to have a black appearance. 
 
3.2 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
10 finished parts are required for complete testing. 
Unless certain sections of a part that are marked in the drawing are excluded from the surface 
coating, the entire surface of the parts must comply with the required surface protection and display 
the prescribed properties. The coating shall have firm adherence to the base material. 
The production process and its control shall not impair the functional characteristics of the finished 
part. If, besides the corrosion protection, further functional surface characteristics such as 
paintability, compatibility with agents, vulcanizability, temperature behavior or electrical conductivity 
are required, part-specific tests or functional tests shall be performed. 
The post-treatments must not cause any impairments such as unsightly drop-like residues resulting 
from crystallization and/or formation of a film on the part surface. 
The protective coatings must not exhibit any pores, cracks, damage, or other flaws that impair the 
corrosion protection and/or specified appearance. The coatings shall firmly adhere to the base 
material; there shall be no flaking or cracks of the coating under elastic deformation. 
Given proper mounting, the coating shall not be damaged in a way that would lead to impairment of 
function and/or decrease of the specified corrosion protection. 
The surface treatment method shall be conducted so that damage by delayed hydrogen-induced 
brittle fractures can be ruled out. Verification by bracing test according to DIN 50969. 


Page 3 
TL 153: 2003-11 
 
3.3 
Base material 
See drawing. 
3.4 
Iron content (for first-sample tests only) 
Test according to Test Specification PV 1021. 
Requirement: 0.3% to 1.0%. 
3.5 
Electroplated coating thicknesses 
Test according to DIN EN ISO 1463, DIN EN ISO 2178 and DIN EN ISO 3497 (see Section 4). 
Requirement: 8 µm to 25 µm. 
3.6 
Adhesive strength 
Thermal shock test based on DIN EN ISO 2819. 
The specimen part is aged for 30 minutes at (220 ± 10) °C and then dipped in water at 
a temperature of 15 °C to 25 °C. 
Requirement: no flaking, no large-scale or bubble-shaped stripping of the coating. 
3.7 
Corrosion behavior 
The corrosion resistance of the coating must be ensured in the as-received condition and also after 
a 24-hour period of aging at elevated temperature (at 100 °C). These are minimum requirements 
and shall always be adhered to. 
Test according to DIN 50021-SS; evaluation according to DIN EN 12329. 
The test durations and requirements according to Table 3 apply to the evaluation of the passivation 
treatment layers and to their optional sealing. 
The following applies to the evaluation of the coating, its passivation treatment layers and sealing: 
 
 
No base metal corrosion after a test duration of 360 h. 
 
 
No zinc corrosion after the test durations specified in Table 3. 
 
Table 3 – Test durations and requirements for the evaluation of passivation treatment layer 
and sealing  
Test duration in h 
Protection 
class 
Barrel-
galvanized 
goods2) 
Rack-
galvanized 
goods 
Requirement 
Ofl-r301 
96 
168 
Ofl-r302 
120 
168 
No zinc corrosion after the prescribed test duration, 
minor optical change (“gray cast”) permissible 
2) Barrel-galvanized goods are small parts which cannot be coated as rack-galvanized goods because of their shape, and which 
therefore are coated as bulk goods. 
 


Page 4 
TL 153: 2003-11 
 
4 
Referenced standards 3) 
PV 1021 
Zinc-Iron Alloy Coatings; Determination of Iron Content by ICP 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 137 50 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Degrees of Protection, Codes, 
Requirements 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN 50021 
Spray Tests with Different Sodium Chloride Solutions 
DIN 50969 
Testing of High-Strength Steel Building Elements for Resistance to 
Hydrogen-Induced Brittle Fracture and Advice on the Prevention of  such 
Fracture 
DIN EN 12329 
Corrosion Protection of Metals – Electrodeposited Coatings of Zinc with 
Supplementary Treatment on Iron and Steel 
DIN EN ISO 1463 
Metallic and Oxide Coatings – Measurement of Coating Thickness – 
Microscopical Method 
DIN EN ISO 2178 
Non-Magnetic Coatings on Magnetic Substrates – Measurement of Coating 
Thickness – Magnetic Method 
DIN EN ISO 2819 
Metallic Coatings on Metallic Substrates – Electrodeposited and Chemically 
Deposited Coatings – Review of Methods Available for Testing Adhesion 
DIN EN ISO 3497 
Metallic Coatings – Measurement of Coating Thickness – X-Ray 
Spectrometric Methods 
                                                
3)  In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
