# TL184.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 50223 
September 2006 
Zinc Thermal Diffusion Layers 
(Zn-ThD Layers) 
Surface Protection Requirements 
TL 
184 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
corrosion protection, zinc, thermal diffusion, diffusion layer, Zn-ThD layer, sur-
face 
 
 
Page 1 of 6 
Fachverantwortung/Technical responsibility 
Normung/Standards Dept. 
 
 
I/EC-72 
Mr. Gebhard Tel.: +49-841-89-92412 
Mr. Schnattinger 
K-GQL-2/2 Mr. Ackermann Tel.: +49-5361-9-38255 Mr. Laudien Dr. Eisenberg 
E2TC/4 
Wiesner 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-29064 
E2TC 
Mr. Terlinden 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 01.06 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification TL 184: 
2004-04: 
─ 
the status of the standard has been changed (previously withdrawn) 
─ 
scope restricted 
─ 
responsibility extended 
─ 
temperature resistance decreased from 350 °C to 300 °C 
─ 
requirements adapted to current surface protection systems 
Changes in requirements as compared to the previous issue are indicated by a vertical bar on the 
side of the modified text block. 
Previous issues 
2004-04 
1 
Scope 
This standard defines requirements for Cr(VI)-free zinc alloy coatings applied to ferrous materials 
by means of thermal diffusion. This procedure is described in Appendix A.1. 
The silver gray coatings are used as heavy-duty corrosion protection (protection class 6) for com-
ponents for which operation temperatures of up to 300 °C (e.g., in the engine compartment or in 
the area of the brake and exhaust systems) as well as an increased corrosion load are to be ex-
pected. Since hydrogen embrittlement cannot be caused by this coating process, this corrosion 
protection can also be used for hardened and high-strength steel parts with tensile strength values 
Rm> 1000 MPa or surface hardness values > 320 HV. 
The absence of a transition between the diffusion zone and the actual coating makes this surface 
treatment particularly suitable for so-called bulk goods, since mechanical damage to the surface 
will not significantly impair corrosion protection. 
The coating is not suitable for applications where it comes into contact with magnesium. 
Threaded parts with metric ISO threads may only be used as multi-purpose parts if the above men-
tioned coating was applied. Application of this coating to standard parts is not permissible. 
Zinc thermal diffusion layers should not be used in the visual range of the customer. In case of a 
damaged passivation treatment, localized red corrosion will occur within a relatively short period of 
time. Although such corrosion has no critical impact on the component's function, it impairs the 
component's appearance in the visual range of the customer. 
2 
Description 
See VW 13750, Section 2. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate.In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
Numerical notation according to ISO practice (see VW 01000). 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 184: 2006-09 
 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
Surface protection types 
The surface protection types listed in Table 1 apply. 
Table 1 
Surface pro-
tection type 
Characteristics/appearance 
Ofl-u610 
Zinc alloy coating, silver gray, with colorless, Cr(VI)-free passivation treatment 
Ofl-u615 
Zinc alloy coating, silver gray, with colorless, Cr(VI)-free passivation treatment 
and additional lubrication treatment 
3.2 
General requirements 
Approval of first supplies and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 01155. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 91101. 
10 finished parts are required for complete testing. For first-sample release of small parts, e.g., 
threaded fastening elements, a test production of > 50 kg shall be performed. 
The coating must not exhibit any flaking or cracks during expansion or contraction (e.g., of springs) 
according to specifications. 
The coating must be free of flaws and excess material impairing the component’s function. 
Manufacturer, coating method and location of use schall be agreed upon for each component with 
the Volkswagen Central Laboratory (K-GQL-2/2) and/or with the Audi Design Engineering Ingol-
stadt (I/EG-72). 
The protective layers must be free of large pores, large cracks, damages and other flaws impairing 
the corrosion protection and/or the specified appearance. 
The layout of the production process shall not impair the functional characteristics of the part. 
3.3 
Threaded parts with metric ISO threads 
The coating process must not impair the mechanical and physical properties specified for joining 
elements. Therefore, the manufacturer shall verify whether the treatment temperatures specified by 
the coating company are suitable for the parts to be coated. 
In the case of screws, the test specifications listed below only apply to the head and/or the wrench 
bearing surfaces; in the case of nuts they apply only to the face surfaces and/or wrench bearing 
surfaces. For threaded and thread-like shaped parts, such as tap end studs, the test requirements 
only apply to the face surfaces. 
Prior to coating, threaded parts shall exhibit tolerances corresponding to the coating thickness; 
tolerances for metric threaded parts with external threads preferably according to VW 11627, for 
parts with internal threads according to VW 11624. 
After the coating process, the actual thread profile must not exceed the maximum material limit for 
the tolerance zone positions H and h at any point. 
For further information see VW 01110, Section 2. 


Page 3 
TL 184: 2006-09 
 
3.4 
Structure 
3.4.1 
Base material 
For component base material see drawing. 
3.4.2 
Layer structure 
a) Zinc-iron diffusion layer (approx. 2 to 90% Zn, Zn content increasing towards the edge, max. 
10 to 20% Fe permissible at the surface). 
b) Passivation treatment layer (see Appendix A.2) 
3.4.3 
Passivation treatment layer 
In order to improve corrosion resistance to salt water and condensed water, a post-treatment in 
passivation treatment solutions is required. 
The passivation treatment solution used in this process must not contain any Cr(VI) compounds in 
order to ensure that the resulting passivation layers are likewise Cr(VI)-free. 
3.4.4 
Top coats/lubricants 
The use of additional immersion lubricants is specified in order to ensure defined friction parame-
ters on joining elements with metric thread. In this case, the coefficients of friction acc. to 
VW 01129 shall be adhered to. 
If further functional surface characteristics such as repaintability, compatibility with other agents, 
specific friction properties, specific threadening behavior, vulcanizability or specific temperature 
behavior are required besides corrosion protection, part-specific tests or functional tests must be 
performed. 
3.4.5 
Layer thicknesses 
The thickness of the zinc-iron diffusion layer is determined using a microsection according to 
DIN EN ISO 1463 (see Table 2 for requirements). Layer thickness measurements during standard 
production may also be performed with the help of the x-ray fluorescence method according to 
DIN EN ISO 3497 using the Zn/Fe measuring task (Fischerscope measuring device from Helmut 
Fischer or Röntgenanalytik, for example). This requires the use of a suitable standard as well as 
the comparison with a microsection (determination of the correlation dependent on the layer thick-
ness). 
Table 2 – Layer thicknesses 
 
Zinc alloy layer (µm) 
Passivation treatment (µm) 
Threaded parts 1) 
10 to 20 
Other components 
15 to 25 
1 to 2 
1) Increased layer thicknesses appropriate to the tolerance zone position are permissible for threaded parts > M10 
 


Page 4 
TL 184: 2006-09 
 
3.5 
Liability 
Test for sheet metal parts: Bending test using 1-mm-thick sheet metal, 90° bend with a radius of 
approx. 2 mm. Requirement: No chipping must occur in the deformed area. 
The following applies to joining elements: Chipping must neither occur as a result of transportation 
as bulk goods nor during the subsequent assembly according to specifications. 
3.6 
Corrosion behavior 
In the case of threaded fasteners, the test requirements apply only to head and/or wrench bearing 
surfaces. The following applies to the evaluation of the shank and thread areas of threaded and 
quick fastening elements: no base metal corrosion permissible after a test duration of 480 h using 
the NSS (neutral salt spray) test method acc. to DIN EN ISO 9227. 
The corrosion protection must not be impaired by 24-hour aging at elevated temperature 
(120 ± 5 °C). 
NSS test method acc. to DIN EN ISO 9277. According to Table 3, the following applies to the eva-
luation of zinc thermal diffusion layers including the passivation treatment layer: 
Table 3 
System 
Test duration in h 
Requirement 
240 
Zinc corrosion is not permissible, 
gray cast is permissible. 
u610, u615 
720 
Base metal corrosion is not permissible. 
 
3.7 
Resistance to chemicals (only for first-sample test) 
Test according to VDA 621-412, A; evaluation according to DIN EN ISO 4628-1, Table 3; test me-
dia and requirements see Table 4. 
Table 4 
No. 
Test medium 
Requirement 
1 
For parts to be installed in the engine compartment 
1.1 
Premium unleaded gasoline acc. to DIN EN 228 
1.2 
Diesel fuel acc. to DIN EN 590 
1.3 
Factory-fill engine oil acc. to TL 52107 
1.4 
Automatic transmission fluid acc. to TL 52162 
1.5 
Central hydraulic system fluid acc. to TL 52146 
No change in surface and no impairment 
of corrosion protection, 
characteristic value: max. 1. 
2 
For parts to be installed outside the engine compartment 
2.1 
Brake fluid acc. to TL 766 
2.2 
Coolant acc. to TL 774 
Minor change permitted, but characteris-
tic value max. 1 after 5 h resting period 
 


Page 5 
TL 184: 2006-09 
 
4 
Referenced standards* 
TL 766 
Brake Fluid; Material Requirements 
TL 774 
Ethylene Glycol-Based Coolant Additive; Material Requirements 
TL 52107 
SAE 15W-40 Factory Fill Engine Oil; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 52146 
Central Hydraulic System Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 52162 
Factory-Fill-for-Life Automatic Transmission Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
VW 01110 
Threaded Joints; Design, Assembly and Process Assurance 
VW 01129 
Limit Values for Coefficients of Friction; Mechanical Joining Elements with 
Metric ISO Thread 
VW 01155 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 11611 
Metric ISO Threads; Limit Dimensions with Surface Protection Layer for Me-
dium Tolerance Class 6g/6H 
VW 11624 
Metric ISO Thread; Limit Dimensions for 6G/6f Tolerance Zone, Male 6f, Fe-
male 6G 
VW 11627 
Thread Limit Dimensions for External Threads – of Tolerance Class 6e; Met-
ric ISO Threads 
VW 13750 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Surface Protection Types, Codes 
VW 91101 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
VDA 621-412 
Anstrichtechnische Prüfungen; Chemikalienbeständigkeit von Kraftfahr-
zeuglackierungen (Tests for Coating Methods; Resistance to Chemicals of 
Motor Vehicle Paints - only available in German) 
DIN EN 228 
Automotive Fuels – Unleaded Petrol – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 590 
Automotive Fuels – Diesel – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN ISO 1463 
Metallic and Oxide Coatings – Measurement of Coating Thickness – Micro-
scopical Method 
DIN EN ISO 3497 
Metallic Coatings – Measurement of Coating Thickness – X-Ray Spectromet-
ric Methods 
DIN EN ISO 4628-1 Paints and Varnishes - Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings; Designation of 
Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform Changes in Ap-
pearance – Part 1: General Introduction and Designation System 
DIN EN ISO 9227 
Corrosion Tests in Artificial Atmospheres - Salt Spray Tests 
                                                
* In this Section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 


Page 6 
TL 184: 2006-09 
 
Appendix A (informative) 
A.1 
System description 
A.1.1 
Pretreatment 
Parts to be coated are mechanically cleaned by means of abrasive blasting (30 to 70 µm grain si-
ze). The blast material must be matched to the material to be coated. Oiled parts shall be degrea-
sed prior to blasting. 
A.1.2 
Coating process 
The components are placed in drums with a capacity of up to 1,000 kg for coating. A powder con-
sisting of up to 90 % zinc dust is then added to the drum in a fixed ratio to the component size 
(approx. 1 to 3 %, depending on the required layer thickness). 
In addition to the zinc (particle size < 5 µm), the powder can also contain metallic and non-metallic 
additives as well as additives facilitating and controling the actual coating process. 
The drum is closed after filling and placed in a chamber oven. 
The diffusion treatment takes 1,5 to 3 hours under air atmosphere once the treatment temperature 
is reached. 
With a material-dependent temperature of 330 to 400 °C, turning the drum will result in a diffusion 
layer of constant thickness as well as a slightly cracked top layer across the entire component sur-
face. 
After the diffusion treatment, the container is removed from the chamber oven, cooled to room 
temperature and then emptied. The coated parts are freed from powder residues, cleaned using 
ultrasonics, passivated and dried. 
A.2 
Released surface protection systems 
A.2.1 
u610/u615 
DIFFCO; Fa. ITW Automotive Products GmbH & Co. KG, 58642 Iserlohn-Letmathe 
A.3 
Released coating suppliers 
Fa. ITW Automotive Products GmbH & Co. KG, Coating Division, 58642 Iserlohn-Letmathe 
