# TL182.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 50211 
February 2007 
Inorganic Protective Coating on Aluminum 
Parts 
Surface Protection Requirements 
TL 
182 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
aluminum, anodizing process, corrosion protection, oxide coating, protective 
coating  
 
Page 1 of 3 
Fachverantwortung/Technical Responsibility 
Normung/Standards  
 
I/GQ-323, Ms. Betz, Phone +49 841 89 31213 
 
N/GQ-551, Mr. Beuchert, Phone +49 7132 31 5449 
I/EX-1, Mr. Winkler, Phone +49 841 89 30965 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior permission of a standards department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Contract partners shall obtain this standard only through the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen/Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.06 
1 
Scope 
This standard specifies requirements for anodic oxide coatings and inorganic top coatings on parts 
made of pure aluminum and pure aluminum alloys. 
The additional protective coating is specified for decorative aluminum components on the exterior 
of automobiles. 
2 
Description 
Ofl-w625 according to TL 182 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
Surface protection type (decorative) 
Appearance according to original sample 
Surface protection Ofl-w625 is an anodic oxide coating (anodizing and partial sealing) with an 
additionally applied inorganic non-metallic coating. This surface protection is used for decorative 
add-on parts with increased requirements for weather resistance or chemical resistance. 
The additional coating with an inorganic non-metallic coating must be released in coordination with 
the purchaser's Materials Department as part of a system release. 
3.2 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 01155. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 91101. 
A total of 10 finished parts are required for complete testing. 
The protective coating must not exhibit any pores, cracks, damage, or other flaws that impair the 
corrosion protection or specified appearance. 
3.3 
Appearance 
The specimens are evaluated with the naked eye and in natural light. 
The component properties regarding finish (e.g., gloss level or structure) and color must be 
evaluated according to the released original sample. Corresponding maximum deviation samples 
must be specified by the persons responsible for quality in standard production monitoring. 
Components with additional protective coating (Ofl-w625) must not exhibit any flaws, such as edge 
buildup, orange peel effect, etc. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
Numerical notation according to ISO practice (see VW 01000). 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 182: 2007-02 
 
Part finish must be free of polishing flaws, scratches, damage, or similar flaws that impair the 
appearance of the part. The surface of the component must not exhibit any loss of glossiness, 
cloudiness, or shadowy areas. 
3.4 
Coating thickness 
The coating thickness is defined according to DIN EN ISO 1463. 
The coating thickness of the anodic oxide coating must be (5 – 10) µm and the coating thickness of 
the organic additional coating must be (0,5 – 5) µm. 
3.5 
Corrosion test 
Salt spray test according to DIN EN ISO 9227 
─ 
CASS 
48 h 
─ 
SS 
480 h 
Requirement: 
No optical changes, separation, or corrosion on the A and B visible surfaces of 
the component 
3.6 
Resistance to acids, heat, and alkali 
The following tests are performed consecutively on the same component in the order specified. 
Sequence (the tests must be performed within a temperature range of (23 – 35) °C) 
─ 
10 min immersion in pH 1 solution 
─ 
Rinse in H2O and dry 
─ 
Age at elevated temperature at 40 °C for 1 h (continue the test sequence without cooling 
down) 
─ 
10 min immersion in pH 13,5 solution 
─ 
Rinse in H2O and dry 
Evaluation:  
No optical changes compared to the as-received condition 
 
Mathematically-defined test solutions: 
pH value 1: 
0,1 molar hydrochloric acid, e.g., available from Merck, order no. 1.09060.1000 
pH value 13,5: 
12,7 g caustic soda, Merck order no. 1.06469.1000 
4,64 g sodium phosphate dodecahydrate (corresponding to 2 g sodium 
phosphate), Merck order no. 1.06572.1000 
0,33 g sodium chloride (corresponds to 200 mg chloride), Merck order no. 
1.006404.1000 
 
As part of the basic system release, a test according to Test Specification PV 3.3.3 with 10 double 
strokes must be performed immediately before the test for resistance to acids, heat, and alkali. 
Evaluation:  
No separation of the protective coating 


Page 3 
TL 182: 2007-02 
 
3.7 
Temperature resistance 
Test: 
24 h at 160 °C 
Requirement: 
No cracks in the protective coating 
4 
Currently released coating systems 
Cerapaint (sol-gel process) 
5 
Referenced documents1 
PV 3.3.3 
Paints and Varnishes; Scratch Resistance Testing of Clear Coats 
VW 01155 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 91101 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN EN ISO 1463 
Metallic and Oxide Coatings – Measurement of Coating Thickness – 
Microscopical Method 
DIN EN ISO 9227 
Corrosion Tests in Artificial Atmospheres – Salt Spray Tests 
                                               
1 In this Section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
