# TL187.pdf

Nitrocarburated and Coated Ball Pins
Previous issues
TL 187: 2002-01; TL 187: 2003-10; TL 187: 2006-08
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to TL 187: 2006-08:
–
Standard restructured and revised
Contents
Page
Scope ............................................................................................................................. 2
Description ..................................................................................................................... 2
General .......................................................................................................................... 2
Types ............................................................................................................................. 2
Type A ............................................................................................................................ 2
Type B ............................................................................................................................ 2
Type C ........................................................................................................................... 2
Description in technical documentation ......................................................................... 2
Requirements ................................................................................................................. 3
General requirements .................................................................................................... 3
Material .......................................................................................................................... 3
Base material ................................................................................................................. 3
Treatment ....................................................................................................................... 3
Example of type B .......................................................................................................... 3
Example of type C .......................................................................................................... 4
Hardness testing ............................................................................................................ 4
Coating ........................................................................................................................... 5
Type A ............................................................................................................................ 5
Type B ............................................................................................................................ 5
Type C ........................................................................................................................... 5
1
2
3
4
4.1
4.2
4.3
5
6
6.1
6.2
6.2.1
6.2.2
6.3
6.4
6.5
6.5.1
6.5.2
6.5.3
6.5.4
Group Standard
TL 187
Issue 2009-01
Class. No.:
50211
Descriptors:
surface protection, ball pin, corrosion, nitrocarburation
Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
Numerical notation acc. to ISO practice.
Page 1 of 7
Technical responsibility
Standards Department
I/GQ-321
Rolf Schappat
Tel.: +49-841-89-43973
I/EZ-11 Reinhold Eitelhuber
Tel.: +49-841-89-32120
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform www.vwgroupsupply.com.
© Volkswagen Aktiengesellschaft
VWNORM-2008-12d
QUELLE: NOLIS


Roughness depth Rz ...................................................................................................... 5
Surface hardness ........................................................................................................... 5
Nitriding depth ................................................................................................................ 5
Quality specifications ..................................................................................................... 5
Tests .............................................................................................................................. 6
Ball pin corrosion test ..................................................................................................... 6
Ball pin area up to the sealing bellows connection ........................................................ 6
Thread ............................................................................................................................ 6
Centering on the ball ...................................................................................................... 6
Referenced documents .................................................................................................. 6
6.6
6.6.1
6.6.2
6.6.3
7
7.1
7.1.1
7.1.2
7.1.3
8
Scope
This Technical Supply Specification (TL standard) defines requirements on ball joints in the chassis
area, the ball pins of which are nitrocarburated and oxidized in salt bath (type A), nitrocarburated and
oxidized in gas (type B), or nitrocarburated and oxidized in plasma (type C).
Description
Nitrocarburated and coated ball pins acc. to TL 187
General
For ball pins with threaded connections a partial nitrocarburation of the ball pin is recommended, i.e.
the thread and possibly surrounding areas are not nitrocarburated.
With partially nitrocarburated ball pins only types B and C are permitted; a partial thread coating is
only possible with type C.
Types
Type A
Ball pins nitrocarburated and oxidized in salt bath
Type B
Ball pins nitrocarburated and oxidized in gas
Type C
Ball pins nitrocarburated and oxidized in plasma
Description in technical documentation
Surface (Ofl.) TL 187, type A
Surface (Ofl.) TL 187, type B
Surface (Ofl.) TL 187, type C
1  
2  
3  
4  
4.1  
4.2  
4.3  
5  
Page 2
TL 187: 2009-01


Requirements
General requirements
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 01155.
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 91101.
The required minimum for a complete examination are 6 parts per test.
Material
Base material
Material and core strength according to drawing
Treatment
The treated surfaces must be metallically bright.
Permitted exceptions:
–
Centerings at the ball and at the pin end
–
Hexagon socket or 12-point socket at the pin end
The ball surface must be roll-polished to a roughness depth of Rz < 2 μm prior to treatment.
If the ball pins are partially nitrocarburated and oxidized (possible with types B and C), the areas must
be specified in the drawing.
Example of type B
Area I:
Nitrocarburated and oxidized in gas acc. to TL 187
Area II:
Transition area; for detailed dimensioning see detail Z in
Figure 3. Only maximum values apply to layer thickness‐
es, nitriding hardness depth, and hardness.
Area III:
Without treatment
Figure 1 – Type B areas
6  
6.1  
6.2  
6.2.1  
6.2.2  
6.3  
Page 3
TL 187: 2009-01


Example of type C
Area I:
Nitrocarburated and oxidized in plasma acc. to TL 187
Area II:
Transition area; for detailed dimensioning see detail Z in
Figure 3. Only maximum values apply to layer thickness‐
es, nitriding depth, and hardness.
Area III:
Only oxidation
Area IV:
Nitrocarburated and oxidized in plasma acc. to TL 187
Figure 2 – Type C areas
Hardness testing
For the hardness test within the thread area of types B and C see Figure 3, detail Z.
For ball pins with threaded connections the hardness determined in the hardness measurements on
the microsection acc. to Figure 3 may amount to the following values in measuring point x at 0,05
mm in the edge area:
–
Basic strength 820 MPa - 1030 MPa
Hardness at 0,05 mm depth ≤ 350 HV 0,3
–
Basic strength 970 MPa - 1200 MPa
Hardness at 0,05 mm depth ≤ 385 HV 0,3
Figure 3 – Position of measuring point x
Further special measuring locations may be defined in the drawing.
6.4  
6.5  
Page 4
TL 187: 2009-01


Coating
The limit values specified for the layer thicknesses require a passed wear test according to
TL 82526 and apply only to the ball.
Testing for types A, B and C in the metallographic microsection.
Type A
Compound layer (10 to 20) μm, pore edge up to 50 % of the layer thickness is permitted. Oxide layer
<1 µm is permitted, pores filled with oxide.
Type B
Compound layer (15 to 26) μm, pore edge up to 50 % of the layer thickness is permitted. Oxide layer
(1 to 3) µm after polishing.
Type C
Compound layer (8 to 16) μm, pore edge up to 30 % of the layer thickness is permitted. Oxide layer
(1 to 3) µm after polishing.
As long as the corrosion withstand time is fulfilled, up to max. 50 % pore edge are not subject of
complaint.
Roughness depth Rz
Rz< 2 μm on the ball surface
Surface hardness
> 500 HV 0,5 on the ball surface
Nitriding depth
Nitriding depth (Nht) at a basic strength of (880 to 1030) MPa
Type A
330 HV 0,3 = (0,15 + 0,15) mm
Type B
330 HV 0,3 = (0,20 + 0,25) mm
Type C
330 HV 0,3 = (0,25 + 0,25) mm
For basic strength values > 1030 MPa, the nitriding depth is determined acc. to DIN 50190-3.
Limit hardness = core hardness + 50 HV
Nitriding depth acc. to DIN 50190-3 ≥ 0,15 mm
Quality specifications
Untreated or incompletely machined surface areas, mechanical damages, such as impact marks,
scratches, etc., as well as polishing agent residues are not permitted.
6.5.1  
6.5.2  
6.5.3  
6.5.4  
6.6  
6.6.1  
6.6.2  
6.6.3  
Page 5
TL 187: 2009-01


Tests
Ball pin corrosion test
Testing (within the framework of technical engineering release/first-sample testing) is to be performed
in the salt spray fog acc. to DIN EN ISO 9227 on ball pins which went through the assembly process.
Prior to the corrosion test degreasing and washing of the test parts is required.
During the corrosion test the test parts are horizontally arranged and must not come in contact with
each other. Contact with metallic, not corrosion-protected parts (brackets etc.) is to be avoided. Only
the component surface directly subjected to the salt spray fog is evaluated.
Non-mechanically machined areas, such as ball pin centerings and hexagon sockets are to be ex‐
cluded from the corrosion evaluation. Therefore, it is recommended to cover these areas prior to the
test run.
Further deviating areas of a component, which require different test conditions, are to be defined in
the component drawing individually.
Ball pin area up to the sealing bellows connection
Types A, B, C: Max. 5 individual spots of red corrosion are permitted after a test duration of 240 h.
The cause of non-reached corrosion withstand times must be verified by means of microsection in
arbitration cases.
An accumulation of corrosion spots (red surface corrosion) is not permitted on any component area.
Thread
The nitrated thread area according to types A and C must not show any red corrosion after 96 h;
permitted thread defects acc. to DIN EN 26157-3 are excluded.
Only oxidized component areas (type C), which are not directly subjected to environmental influences,
have to withstand a 24-h test in the moisture condensate alternating atmosphere acc. to ISO 554 with
≤ 3 % red corrosion.
Centering on the ball
Unless machined, the ball pin centering is to be excluded from the corrosion evaluation. It is recom‐
mended to cover it prior to the test run.
Further deviating areas of a component, which require different test conditions, are to be defined in
the component drawing individually.
Referenced documents
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary for application.
In this Section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
Standards with the titles given in German are either only available in German or may be procured in
other languages from the institution issuing the standard.
TL 82526
Chassis Joints; Requirements and Test Conditions
VW 01155
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes
7  
7.1  
7.1.1  
7.1.2  
7.1.3  
8  
Page 6
TL 187: 2009-01


VW 91101
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
DIN 50190-3
Hardness depth of heat-treated parts; determination of the effective depth
of hardening after nitriding
DIN EN 26157-3
Fasteners; surface discontinuities; bolts, screws and studs subject to spe‐
cial requirements
DIN EN ISO 9227
Corrosion tests in artificial atmospheres - Salt spray tests
ISO 554
Standard atmospheres for conditioning and/or testing; Specifications
Page 7
TL 187: 2009-01
