# TL193.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 22 3 
December 2004 
Flake-Metal Coatings for Brake Discs 
Surface Protection Requirements 
TL 
193 
Konzernnorm 
2 Types: A, B 
 
Descriptors: 
zinc flake coating, brake disc, brake disk, surface protection, Geomet, 
Alutherm, corrosion protection 
 
Page 1 of 4 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32/2 
Koeppen 
Tel: -25803 
Laudien 
Dr. Eisenberg 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 193, 2001-02: 
 
Scope expanded to include flake-metal coatings 
 
Title changed 
 
Type B added 
 
Corrosion resistance requirements changed 
 
Referenced standards updated 
 
Standard restructured 
Previous issues 
1997-05; 1998-05; 2001-02 
1 
Scope 
This Technical Supply Specification (TL standard) defines the requirements for two types of non-
electrolytically applied flake-metal coatings on brake discs: 
TL 193, type A: 
e.g. GeometTM D from the Dacral company 
TL 193, type B: 
e.g. ALUTHERM® from the Weckerle company. 
2 
Designation 
Example of a drawing entry for GeometTM: 
Surface protection according to TL 193-A 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen Standard VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
5 finished parts are required for complete testing. 
The flake-metal coating shall be free of pores, cracks, foreign matter inclusions and other flaws that 
impair the corrosion protection. The coating shall adhere firmly to the base material. Excess 
material on the functional surfaces is not permissible. 
3.2 
Base material 
Material according to the drawing. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 193: 2004-12 
 
3.3 
Pretreatment 
Bright metal surface. Abrasive blasting is permissible. 
3.4 
Composition of the dry film 
Type A: at least 80 weight % zinc and aluminum flakes, of which approx. 8% is aluminum flakes; 
remainder: inorganic, chromium-free binding agent. 
Type B: at least 40 weight % aluminum flakes; remainder: chromium-free binding agent. 
3.5 
Coating thickness 
Excess material on the surfaces named in Table 1 is not permitted. 
The coating thickness is determined according to DIN EN ISO 2178. In arbitration cases, 
the microscopic coating thickness determination method according to DIN EN ISO 1463 is used. 
 
Table 1 
Specifications of coating thicknesses 
for flake-metal coatings on the brake disc 
Type A 
Type B 
Functional surfaces 
Centering seat, hub contact surface 
Friction ring surface, wheel screw-on surface 
 
(3 ± 2) µm 
(7 ± 3) µm 
 
< 10 µm 
< 10 µm 
Face surface of the friction ring, 
chamber wall inside and outside 
as well as cooling duct 
(11 ± 4) µm 
 25 µm 
 
3.6 
Color 
Type A: silver-gray. 
Type B: metallic silver. 
The visual effects created by the flake structure (lighter and darker areas) are permitted. 
3.7 
Adhesion 
3.7.1 
Crosscut test 
Testing according to DIN EN ISO 2409. Requirement: characteristic value 0 to 1. 
3.7.2 
Tape test 
An X-shaped line is scribed into the coating. Adhesive tape with an adhesive force of 3 N/cm and 
a width of 30 mm (Tesaband 4657) is stuck to the scribing line and removed with a jerk-like motion 
perpendicular to the specimen surface. In this test, the coating must not come away from the base 
material, cohesive fractures within the coating are, however, permitted. 


Page 3 
TL 193: 2004-12 
 
3.8 
Corrosion resistance 
3.8.1 
Salt spray fog test 
Testing according to DIN 50021-SS, with and without prior aging at elevated temperature, 
1 h at +300 °C. After 96 h in the salt spray fog, base metal corrosion must not be detectable. 
Minor edge corrosion is permitted.  
Open-air weathering in a coastal climate. 
Testing only upon release of new coating systems. After six-months of open-air weathering, 
no base metal corrosion may be detectable. 
3.8.2 
Moisture condensate alternating atmosphere 
Testing according to DIN 50017 KFW1). After 10 cycles in the moisture condensate alternating 
atmosphere, no base metal corrosion may be detectable. 
3.9 
Resistance to chemicals 
Testing only upon release of new coating systems. According to VDA2) 621-412, Test A 
in the following media: 
 
Premium unleaded gasoline according to DIN EN 228, 
 
Diesel fuel according to DIN EN 590, 
 
Brake fluid according to TL 766, 
 
Released sealant and sealant remover. 
Evaluation according to DIN EN ISO 4628-1, Table 3. Requirement:  characteristic value 1 
in each case. 
                                                
1) 
KFW = environmental cycle test (humidity) 
2) 
VDA = German Association of the Automotive Industry 


Page 4 
TL 193: 2004-12 
 
4 
Referenced standards3) 
TL 766 
Brake Fluid; Material Requirements 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 137 50 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Degrees of Protection, Codes, 
Requirements 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
VDA 621-412 
Anstrichtechnische 
Prüfungen; 
Chemikalienbeständigkeit 
von 
Kraftfahrzeug-Lackierungen (Tests for Coating Methods; Resistance to 
Chemicals of Motor Vehicle Paints – only available in German) 
DIN 50017 
Atmospheres and their Technical Application; Condensation Water Test 
Atmospheres 
DIN 50021 
Spray Tests with Different Sodium Chloride Solutions 
DIN EN 228 
Automotive Fuels – Unleaded Petrol – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 590 
Automotive Fuels – Diesel – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN ISO 1463 
Metallic and Oxide Coatings – Measurement of Coating Thickness – 
Microscopical Method 
DIN EN ISO 2178 
Non-Magnetic Coatings on Magnetic Substrates – Measurement of Coating 
Thickness – Magnetic Method 
DIN EN ISO 2409 
Paints and Varnishes; Cross-Cut Test 
DIN EN ISO 4628-1 
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings – 
Designation of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform 
Changes in Appearance – Part 1: General Introduction and Designation 
System 
                                                
3)  In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
