# TL195.pdf

Mechanical Joining Elements
Steel Metric Bolts with Sealing All-Around Coating (KLD); Material
Requirements
Previous issues
TL 195: 1996-01, 1996-06, 1996-12, 2007-12
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to TL 195: 2007-12:
–
Sections 2 and 3.3. corrected
–
Requirement added in Section 3.5
–
Standard editorially revised
Scope
This standard defines the requirements for thread sealing of metric bolts. There are two designs
available for selection: one for service temperatures ranging from -50 °C up to a maximum of +150 °C
and one for service temperatures ranging from -50 °C to +200 °C (1 h up to a maximum of +250 °C).
NOTE 1 In the standard part administration system (NVS – German abbreviation), these coatings
can be researched under the special design feature KLD (sealing all-around coating – German ab‐
breviation).
1  
Group Standard
TL 195
Issue 2008-11
Class. No.:
50230, 61100
Descriptors:
thread sealing, PA11, PPA, KLD, coating, bolt, all-around coating
Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
Numerical notation acc. to ISO practice.
Page 1 of 4
Technical responsibility
Standards department
EKTC/4
Matthias Jesser
Tel.: +49 5361 9 48810
EKTC/4 Jürgen Wiesner
EKTC
Tel.: +49 5361 9 29064
Manfred Terlinden
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform "www.vwgroupsupply.com".
© VOLKSWAGEN AG
VWNORM-2007-10f
QUELLE: NOLIS


Description
Bolt with sealing all-around coating, service temperature up to +150 °C:
Coated: KLD-VW 60424
Bolt with sealing coating, service temperature up to +200 °C:
Coated: KLD-200-VW 60424
Bolt with sealing all-around coating, color red, coating length of 4 mm, continuous coating begins
5 mm from end of bolt.
Coated: KLD-red-4×5-VW 60424
See Section 3.3. Additional specifications according to VW 60424.
Requirements
General requirements
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 01155.
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 91101.
Ten parts are required for complete testing.
NOTE 2 For service temperatures up to +150 °C, the component is heated to between +200 °C and
+250 °C for a short time (≤ 12 s) during application of the thread sealing. For service temperatures
up to +200 °C, the component is heated up to a maximum of +400 °C for a short time (≤ 12 s) during
application of the thread sealing. In both cases, this can result in a reduction in the corrosion protec‐
tion.
Material of the bolt
Base material: according to drawing and/or master data list (SDL – German abbreviation).
Surface protection: according to drawing and/or master data list (SDL).
Coating
Material
See Table 1.
Table 1
Property
Service temperature
- 50 °C to +150 °C
-50 °C to +200 °C
Material
PA11
PPA (polyphthalamide)
Melting range (measured in the
DSC)
+175 °C to +195 °C
+300 °C to +320 °C
Color
Blue (deviation according to re‐
quirement)
Orange-brown
2  
3  
3.1  
3.2  
3.3  
3.3.1  
Page 2
TL 195: 2008-11


Length and position
Coating length: 3 mm + 1 × P, continuous, and on each side of the continuous coating 1 × P for
spraying transitions. Continuous coating starts 2 mm + 1 × P from beginning of thread at end of bolt.
Deviating length and position
Coating length: 4 mm + 1 × P, continuous coating begins 5 mm + 1 × P from end of bolt.
Screw-in torque
For testing the screw-in torques at room temperature (+10 °C to +35 °C), a test nut with average
tolerance zone position is used in the following dimensions:
–
Pitch diameter, see Table 2
–
Minor diameter, see Table 2
–
Height, see Table 2, countersink 120°
–
Hardness: > 58 HRC
The screw-in torque into the test nut must fulfill the specifications in Table 2. Installation speed ≤
10 rpm. Margin of error of torque meter not to exceed 2% relative to the maximum value of the
specified screw-in torque.
Leak tightness test
For the leak tightness test at room temperature (+10 °C to +35 °C), a test nut with the maximum
dimension of the pitch diameter is used:
–
Test medium: water at room temperature
–
Test pressure: > 1 MPa over-pressure
–
Installation method: floating (without prestressing force)
–
Thread: pitch diameter, see Table 2 (maximum dimension).
Requirement: Water intake on the opposite site of the coating exposed to water pressure must not
be detectable within a 5 minute period.
3.3.2  
3.3.3  
3.4  
3.5  
Page 3
TL 195: 2008-11


Table 2
Thread
Screw-in
torque [Nm]
Screw-in torque test
Leak tightness
test
Minimum
height of test
nut [mm]
Pitch diameter
[mm]
Minor diameter
[mm]a)
Maximum di‐
mension of
pitch diameter
[mm]
M 6
1,5 to 3
5,46 ± 0,02
5,06 ± 0,02
5,48 ± 0,02
4,9
M 8
3 to 6
7,31 ± 0,02
6,80 ± 0,02
7,33 ± 0,02
6,24
M 10 × 1
4 to 10
9,46 ± 0,02
9,06 ± 0,02
9,48 ± 0,02
7,64
M 10 × 1,25
9,31 ± 0,02
8,80 ± 0,02
9,33 ± 0,02
M 10
9,17 ± 0,02
8,55 ± 0,02
9,19 ± 0,02
M 12 × 1,5
7 to 15
11,18 ± 0,02
10,55 ± 0,02
11,2 ± 0,02
10,37
a)  The minor diameter is calculated based on VW 11610: Mean value = (D1 min + D1 max)/2 + tolerance. This formula can also be used to
calculate the minor diameters of threads that are not included in Table 2. In this case, the screw-in torques must be coordinated with
the purchaser.
Aging resistance
The test values for coated bolts shall be ensured for at least 4 years with appropriate indoor storage.
Referenced documents
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary for application.
In this Section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
VW 01155
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 11610
Metric ISO Threads; Limit Dimensions for Medium Tolerance Class; Ex‐
ternal Thread 6g, Internal Thread 6H
VW 60424
Designation Information for Screws, Bolts, Nuts and Washers; Shapes,
Types and Additional Specifications
VW 91101
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
3.6  
4  
Page 4
TL 195: 2008-11
