# TL196_EN_2004-10-01.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 22 3 
October 2004 
Duplex Coating Systems 
for Small Parts and Bulk Parts 
Requirements for Surface Protection 
TL 
196 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
coating, surface protection, zinc, cathodic dip paint, corrosion protection, 
Duplex system 
 
Page 1 of 6 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32 
Koeppen  
Tel: -25803 
Laudien 
Dr. Eisenberg 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 196, 2001-10: 
 
Thickness of the cathodic dip paint coating for components with metric thread changed 
from 10 µm to 12 µm to 8 µm to 12 µm; additional crosscut test after 30 cycles according to 
Test Specification PV 1210 
 
Referenced standards updated 
 
Standard restructured 
Previous issues 
1995-11; 2001-10 
1 
Scope 
This standard defines requirements for electrolytically deposited zinc coatings according to TL 217 
and zinc/nickel alloy coatings according to TL 244 with an additional organic coating based on 
epoxy resins (cathodic dip paint). 
2 
Designation 
See Volkwagen standard VW 137 50, Section 2. 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
Protection types 
The protection types listed in Table 1 apply. 
Table 1 
Protection type 
Appearance 
Ofl-s611 
Zinc coating, passivated according to TL 217, Cr(VI)-free, with additional 
organic coating (cathodic dip paint), jet black 
Ofl-s617 
As for s611, additionally treated with lubricant according to TL 521 32 
Ofl-s621 
Zinc/nickel alloy coating, thick-layer passivated according to TL 244, 
Cr(VI)-free, with additional organic coating (cathodic dip paint), jet black 
Ofl-s627 
As for s621, additionally treated with lubricant according to TL 521 32 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 


Page 2 
TL 196: 2004-10 
 
3.2 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. Furthermore, the coating shall be 
lead-free. 
The coating media used as well as the coatings must contain no Cr(VI) compounds. 
15 parts are required for complete testing. 
The production process and its control shall not impair the functional characteristics of the 
finished part. 
Components with metric thread with this surface protection may only be used at ambient 
temperatures < 90 °C. This coating may not be applied to high-strength screws with 
Rm > 1000 MPa. 
The H-zone must not be fallen below and the h-zone must not be exceeded for threads. 
The large contact points at the suspension points that are typical of rack galvanized goods are not 
permitted. In contrast, isolated barely perceptible micro contact points, which do not, in particular, 
impair the corrosion resistance, are permitted. 
The coating procedures should follow on directly from one another (online procedure), so that 
interim storage and/or transport times are significantly reduced, although a maximum of 24 h is 
permissible. Given proper mounting, the coating shall not be damaged if this would lead to 
impairment of function and/or decrease of the specified corrosion protection. 
The coating provides no standard surface protection for joining elements. If it is to be used on 
joining elements, if necessary in combination with required lubricants, an examination of the actual 
threaded joint is needed. This is done by testing the friction behavior (screw test bed) of the screw, 
the counter layer and the components to be fastened under assembly conditions (screwing speed), 
taking into consideration the operational temperatures. 
For further information see VW 011 10 and VW 011 29. Furthermore, the total layer thickness of 
the coating system may not exceed the layer thicknesses according to DIN EN ISO 4042. 
The test requirements according to Ofl-s611, Ofl-s617, Ofl-s621 and Ofl-s627 apply only to the 
head, the face and/or the flat surfaces for nuts and bolts and to the face surfaces of threaded parts 
and similar molded parts. The reduced requirements specified in Section 3.6 apply to shank and 
thread. 
3.3 
Base material 
Material according to the drawing. 
3.4 
Color 
Black RAL 9005. 


Page 3 
TL 196: 2004-10 
 
3.5 
Layer thicknesses 
See Table 2. For the layer structure of the entire coating (electroplated + organic coating) the 
required layer thickness is 13 µm to 20 µm for components with metric thread and 15 µm to 27 µm 
for other components. 
Table 2 
No. 
Layer thicknesses 
in µm 1) 
Zinc and zinc/nickel  
coating 
Organic coating  
(cathodic-dip paint) 
1 
For components with 
metric thread 
5 to 8 
8 to 12 
2 
For other components 
5 to 12 
10 to 15 
1) for joining elements, the layer thickness shall be determined on the screw head 
3.6 
Adhesion and brittleness 
Crosscut test according to DIN EN ISO 2409 with subsequent removal of adhesive tape.  
Requirement: characteristic value 0 to 1. 
Alternatively, for small parts or joining elements the adhesion can be evaluated by making a scribe 
mark according to DIN EN ISO 7253 and DIN EN ISO 4628-8 followed by adhesive tape removal. 
Requirement: no stripping of coating. 
3.7 
Corrosion behavior 
3.7.1 
Test in moisture condensate constant climate 
Test in the moisture condensate constant climate according to DIN 50017-KK with a scribe mark 
according to DIN EN ISO 7253 and DIN EN ISO 4628-8, test duration 240 h, followed by at 
least 30 min (max. 60 min) acclimatization at room temperature.  
Requirement outside the scribe mark: no blisters, no corrosion of zinc and base metal. 
Requirement at the scribe mark: adhesion loss D < 1 mm. 
In addition, the coating adhesion requirements according to Section 3.6 must be fulfilled after 
the test. 
 
Requirement: characteristic value < 1. 


Page 4 
TL 196: 2004-10 
 
3.7.2 
Corrosion cycle test 
Test according to PV 1210 with a scribe mark according to DIN EN ISO 7253 Section 8.5 and 
DIN EN ISO 4628-8 followed by a test for adhesion according to Section 3.6. 
Requirements according to Table 3. 
Process-determined weaknesses such as e.g. edges, crushing, burrs or undercuts are excluded 
from the evaluation. 
Table 3 
Test cycles 
Requirements 
 
Ofl-s611, Ofl-s617 
Ofl-s621, Ofl-s627 
5 
No blisters, 
no base metal corrosion (rust), 
no visible change (Zn corrosion), 
adhesion loss at the scribe 
D < 2.5 mm 
- 
15 
No blisters, 
no base metal corrosion (rust) 
No blisters, 
no base metal corrosion (rust), 
no visible change (Zn corrosion), 
adhesion loss at the scribe  
D < 1.5 mm 
30 
No base metal corrosion (rust) 
Adhesion acc. to crosscut test, 
characteristic value < 1 
No blisters, 
no base metal corrosion (rust), 
adhesion acc. to crosscut test  
Gt < 1 
adhesion loss at the scribe  
D < 2.5 mm 
60 
- 
No base metal corrosion (rust), 
adhesion loss at the scribe  
D < 2.5 mm 
3.8 
Resistance to chemicals 
According to VDA test sheet 621-412, test A; evaluation according to DIN EN ISO 4628-1, Table 3. 
Testing in oils and brake fluid only for parts used in the engine compartment. 
a) Test in 
Gasoline, premium unleaded according to DIN EN 228 
Diesel fuel according to DIN EN 590 
Factory-fill engine oil according to TL 521 07 
Automatic transmission fluid according to TL 521 62 
Central hydraulic system fluid according to TL 521 46 
Requirement in each case:  characteristic value 1. 
b) Test in 
Brake fluid according to TL 766 
Coolant according to TL 774 
Requirement in each case: minor change permitted, but characteristic value  1 after 5 h resting 
period. 


Page 5 
TL 196: 2004-10 
 
4 
Referenced standards*) 
TL 217 
Zinc Coatings; Requirements for Surface Protection 
TL 244 
Zinc/Nickel Alloy Coatings; Requirements for Surface Protection 
TL 766 
Brake Fluid; Material Requirements 
TL 774 
Ethylene Glycol-Based Coolant Additive; Material Requirements 
TL 521 07 
SAE 15W-40 Factory Fill Engine Oil; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 521 32 
Lubricant 
for 
Electrolytically 
Zinc-Plated 
Threaded 
Parts; 
Material 
Requirements 
TL 521 46 
Central Hydraulic System Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 521 62 
Factory-Fill-for-Life Automatic Transmission Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
PV 1210 
Body and Add-on Parts; Corrosion Test 
VW 011 10 
Threaded Joints; Design, Assembly and Process Assurance 
VW 011 29 
Limit Values for Coefficients of Friction; Mechanical Joining Elements with 
Metric ISO Thread 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 137 50 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Degrees of Protection, Codes, 
Requirements 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
VDA 621-412 
Anstrichtechnische 
Prüfungen; 
Chemikalienbeständigkeit 
von 
Kraftfahrzeug-Lackierungen (Tests for Coating Methods; Resistance to 
Chemicals of Motor Vehicle Paints – only available in German) 
DIN 50017 
Atmospheres and Their Technical Application; Condensation Water Test 
Atmospheres 
DIN EN 228 
Automotive Fuels – Unleaded Petrol – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 590 
Automotive Fuels – Diesel – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN ISO 2409 
Paints and Varnishes – Cross-Cut Test 
DIN EN ISO 4042 
Fasteners – Electroplated Coatings 
DIN EN ISO 4628-1 
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings – 
Designation of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform 
Changes in Appearance – Part 1: General Introduction and Designation 
System 
DIN EN ISO 4628-8 
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings – 
Designation of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform 
Changes in Appearance – Part 8: Evaluation of Corrosion around a Scribe 
DIN EN ISO 7253 
Paints and Varnishes – Determination of Resistance to Neutral Salt Spray 
(Fog) 
                                                
*) 
In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 


Page 6 
TL 196: 2004-10 
 
Appendix A (informative) 
A.1 
Released surface protection systems 
Cr(VI)-free Duplex 2000 coating system (by the company Hillebrand). 
