# TL203_EN_2004-04-01.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 22 1 
April 2004 
Electroplated Nickel/Chromium Coatings 
Requirements for Surface Protection 
TL 
203 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
corrosion protection, surface protection, nickel, chromium 
 
Page 1 of 4 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32 
Frau Dr. Hasse 
Tel: -42106 
Laudien 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-929064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 203, 2004-01: 
─ 
Error in Section 3.1 corrected 
Previous issues 
1955-05; 1957-08; 1959-10; 1960-03; 1964-06; 1964-08; 1965-11; 1972-03; 1975-04; 1980-09; 
1981-05; 1993-06; 1993-09; 2004-01 
1 
Scope 
This standard defines requirements for decorative, electrolytically deposited Ni-Cr coatings on parts 
of steel, copper and aluminum materials, as well as on diecast zinc with the surface protection 
types given in Table 1. 
Table 1 
Protection type 
Applications 
Example acc. to 
DIN EN 12540 
Ofl-f350 
Interior parts with moderate corrosion load, 
e.g., door handles, inserts 
Fe//Ni10b/Crr, 
Zn//Cu8/Ni10b/Crr 
Ofl-f620 
Fe//Ni25d/Crmc, 
Fe//Cu20/Ni25d/Crmc 
Ofl-f650 
Exterior parts with high corrosion load, 
e.g., roof rail, bumper cover strips, radiator 
grille, engine compartment components 
Fe//Cu20/Ni25d/Crmp 
2 
Designation 
See Volkswagen standard VW 137 50, Section 2. 
In addition to indication of the protection type in the surface protection field, the electrolytically 
deposited coating according to DIN EN 12540 shall be indicated in the material field of the 
respective drawing in addition to the base material, e.g.: 
C45, Fe//Cu20/Ni25d/Crmc. 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
Approx. 10 parts (depending on size) are required for a complete test. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 


Page 2 
TL 203: 2004-04 
 
The following additional data shall be given in the first-sample test report: 
─ 
part number, 
─ 
coating company, coating system, 
─ 
electroplating date, 
─ 
process sequence (process times, current densities, temperatures, chemical suppliers), 
─ 
position/arrangement on the rack. 
The selection of the manufacturing method remains optional as long as the specifications of this TL 
standard are fulfilled. 
3.2 
Surface finish 
The protective coating shall not contain any pores, coarse cracks, damage or other flaws impairing 
specified appearance and/or adhesion or corrosion protection. The electroplated components shall 
be free of spots and discolorations. 
The appearance of the parts (degree of glossiness and surface structure) shall correspond to the 
first sample. 
Given proper mounting and transportation conditions, the coating must not be damaged in a way 
that would lead to impairment of function and/or decrease in the specified requirements. Slight 
deformations due to use and mounting shall not lead to loss of adhesion of the electrolytically 
deposited coatings. 
The electroplating contact positions shall be agreed upon. The requirements of the electrolytically 
deposited coating generally apply to all areas of the component unless specific important areas 
(e.g., area visible for the customer or areas that are not visible) are emphasized in the drawing. 
3.3 
Layer structure 
See Table 2. 
Table 2  
Ofl-f350 
Ofl-f620 
Ofl-f650 
Property 
Diecast aluminum/zinc: Pre-copperplating and/or autocatalytically deposited nickel layer 
required  
Steel/copper materials: Pre-copperplating and/or autocatalytically deposited nickel layer 
not absolutely necessary 
Minimum coating 
thickness (µm) 1) acc. to 
DIN EN ISO 1463 
(arbitration process), 
DIN EN ISO 2177 or 
DIN EN ISO 3497 
Ni > 10, 
Cr ≥ 0.3 
Ni > 25, 
Crmc = 0.5 to 1.0 
Ni > 25,  
Crmp = 0.2 to 0.5 
Nickel layer structure 
optional 
Double or triple nickel, 
alternatively Ni intermediate 
layer below the chromium 
layer to generate a crack 
network, sulfur content 
< 0.005% for semi-gloss 
nickel 
Double or triple nickel, 
Ni intermediate layer below 
the chromium layer to 
generate micropores 
Structure of the chromium 
layer, crack or pore density 
according to  
DIN EN 12540, Appendix E 
optional 
(250 to 800) cracks/cm 
> 10,000 pores/cm² 
according to Section 4 
1) At unfavorable component areas with small radii, angles and recessed areas, the local coating thicknesses can drop below 
the minimum specifications due to the process, as long as the resistance requirements according to Section 3.6 are fulfilled. 
 


Page 3 
TL 203: 2004-04 
 
3.4 
Adhesive strength 
The adhesive strength of the coating shall be tested according to DIN EN ISO 2819 using one of 
the following methods (at least the temperature cycle test and one of the mechanical tests listed 
below are to be carried out). 
─ 
Saw-cut test: The component is sawed from the reverse side toward the coating with a metal-
cutting band saw (22 teeth/25 mm; traverse speed 40 to 45 m/min). 
Requirement: No stripping of the coating. 
─ 
Crosscut test according to DIN EN ISO 2409 (3 mm), but with a cutter, e.g., Edding Cutter M9 
by BLB Omnilab (alternatively carried out as a crosscut test (St. Andrew’s cross)). 
Requirement: Gt 0. 
─ 
File test: Filing of a coated component from the reverse side toward the coating at 
an angle of 45°. 
Requirement: No separation of the coating layers or stripping of the coating from the 
base material. 
─ 
Temperature cycle test 
Depending on the base material, the specimen part is aged for one hour at the following 
temperatures and then immersed in room-temperature water: 
Steel 
(300 ± 10) °C 
Copper 
(250 ± 10) °C 
Zinc 
(150 ± 10) °C 
Aluminum 
(150 ± 10) °C 
Requirement: No blistering. 
3.5 
Corrosion resistance 
Salt spray fog test according to DIN 50021-SS, 96 h (for Ofl-f350) and 480 h (for Ofl-f620 and 
Ofl-f650). 
Copper chloride salt spray fog test according to DIN 50021-CASS, 48 h (for Ofl-f620 and Ofl-f650). 
 
Requirement: No base metal corrosion and no signs of corrosion that have a negative effect on 
appearance. (This is evaluated at an observation distance of 60 cm for an observation time 
of 5 s/400 mm2.) 
3.6 
Electrochemical behavior 
Test: test of the voltage differences between the nickel layers, e.g., using a Couloscope CMS Step 
from Helmut Fischer GmbH. 
Requirements: 
The semi-gloss nickel layer must be at least 100 mV nobler than the glossy nickel layer. 
For triple glossy nickel layers, the Ni layer between the semi-gloss and glossy nickel layers, which 
contains an especially high amount of sulfur, must be at least 15 mV less noble than the glossy 
nickel layer. 
An additional thin microporous Ni layer directly below the chromium coating must be at least 20 mV 
nobler than the glossy nickel layer. 


Page 4 
TL 203: 2004-04 
 
4 
Testing note 
The following procedure is recommended for testing microporosity: 
─ 
Cathodic degreasing for 1 to 3 min at 10 A/dm2 and pickling for 30 s in 10% sulfuric acid 
─ 
Polarization of the surface in a copper ring (inner diameter 6 mm) with exposure to an 
electrolyte of: 
33.0 g/l CuSO4 + 5 H2O 
16.0 g/l H2SO4 (96%) 
2.3 g/l KCl 
0.1 ml/l wetting agent, e.g., Wetting Agent DL-S from Enthone GmbH 
 
Polarization sequence: 
1. 30 s anodically at 1,000 mV 
2. 30 s no voltage supplied 
3. 30 s cathodically at 400 mV 
Evaluation: counting the copper crystals formed under the microscope. The Fuhrmann test from 
Enthone is recommended for determining the number of pores in microporous-deposition 
chromium layers. 
5 
Referenced standards*) 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 137 50 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Degrees of Protection, Codes, 
Requirements 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN 50021 
Spray Tests with Different Sodium Chloride Solutions 
DIN EN 12540 
Corrosion Protection of Metals – Electrodeposited Coatings of Nickel, Nickel 
plus Chromium, Copper plus Nickel and Copper plus Nickel plus Chromium 
DIN EN ISO 1463 
Metallic and Oxide Coatings – Measurement of Coating Thickness; 
Microscopical Method 
DIN EN ISO 2177 
Metallic Coatings; Measurement of Coating Thickness; Coulometric Method 
by Anodic Dissolution 
DIN EN ISO 2409 
Paints and Varnishes; Cross-Cut Test 
DIN EN ISO 2819 
Metallic Coatings on Metallic Substrates, Electrodeposited and Chemically 
Deposited Coatings; Review of Methods Available for Testing Adhesion 
DIN EN ISO 3497 
Metallic Coatings – Measurement of Coating Thickness – X-Ray 
Spectrometric Methods 
                                                
*) In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
 
