# TL211_EN_2003-03-01.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 24 3 
March 2003 
Paint Coating on Exterior Plastic Parts 
Requirements 
TL 
211 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
paint, varnish, painting, exterior plastic parts, bumper, wheel cover, rear 
spoiler, trunk lid, fender 
 
 
Page 1 of 9 
Fachverantwortung/Technical responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-31 
Frau Kern 
Tel:-28507 
Frau Dr. Daniel 
Wiesner 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-49035 
Sobanski 
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung einer Normenabteilung des Volkswagen Konzerns nicht gestattet. 
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung. 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 12.00 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to TL 211, 2003-02 issue: 
– 
Adhesive tape specifications revised (section 6.2) 
Previous issues 
– 
1974-11; 1983-10; 1989-07; 1992-08; 1992-09; 1995-03; 1995-10; 1998-06; 2003-02 
1 
Scope 
This technical supply specification (TL standard) specifies requirements for primer coat, single and 
multicoat painting acc. to color chart or special combination chart on plastic parts (body-mounted 
parts, e.g. bumper, wheel cover, rear spoiler, trunk lid, fender, etc). 
2 
Designation 
Painting acc. to TL 211 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General Requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
In case pretreatment is necessary to activate the substrate, the related method should be specified 
(e.g. flame exposure, plasma treatment, etc.). 
The coating/paint, as well as potential re-painting shall exhibit firm adhesion to the substrate or to 
the original paint coat, respectively. 
The supplier shall provide the following information for all parts under test: 
1. 
Specification of substrate material (manufacturer designation and VDA designation) 
2. 
Color 
3. 
Paint structure (precise paint specifications, paint supplier), e.g.: 
Primer coat:  2K primer 01-77008  
by Akzo  
20 µm 
 
Base coat: 
831646  
by Du Pont 
20 µm 
 
Clear coat: 
2K clear coat GP72-0113 by BASF 
22 µm 
4. 
Paint shop worker 
5. 
Paint shop 
6. 
Painting location 
7. 
Painting date 
 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 


Page 2 
TL 211: 2003-03 
 
3.2 
Appearance and haptic characteristics 
The parts shall exhibit a uniform appearance on their entire surface; they shall conform to the 
drawing requirements and to the released sample for gloss and color. 
Pores, coarse cracks, and other flaws which adversely affect the specified appearance are not 
permissible. 
Color and degree of glossiness are documented in the first-sample test report or development 
sample test report acc. to VW 501 95. 
3.3 
Open-air weathering 
All painted components are tested by the VW Group according to VW 501 185 (open-air 
weathering: 1 year in moist heat and 1 year in dry heat). 
The supplier is obligated to remove the cause for complaints occurring during this test and to 
improve the paint system. 
3.4 
Painting process 
The painting process shall be coordinated by paint shop and paint manufacturer. Both parties will 
confirm the first-sample test report, meaning that both are responsible for fulfilling the specified 
requirements. 
Responsibilities are distributed as follows: 
– 
The paint manufacturer provides information on the fulfillment of requirements specified in the 
relevant TL standards, processing guidelines and support regarding the applied paint method. 
– 
The paint shop provides information about the substrate (type of the plastic material and its 
commercial name), checks the requirements as early as possible (this also applies to pre-
production series parts: at least for liability), confirms compliance with the processing guidelines 
of the paint manufacturer and requires support regarding the applied paint method. 
3.5 
Conditioning 
All samples delivered for testing shall be pre-conditioned: 
7 days at room temperature with narrow air temperature range (18 °C to 28 °C) or 48 h at 50 °C. 
Prior to individual testing, the parts shall be conditioned for 24 h at 18 °C to 28 °C acc. to DIN 50 
014. 
4 
Requirements on structure and paint coat thickness 
4.1 
General 
Only one single re-painting job is permissible, considering the total paint coat thickness of < 150 
µm. 
In principle, the following color combinations are permissible for re-painting: 
a) first and second coat are of the same color 
b) permissible first coats for all colors: black, dark blue shades, dark gray shades (also metallic or 
pearlescent finishes) 
Other color combinations shall be agreed upon with the relevant release departments of each 
brand. 


Page 3 
TL 211: 2003-03 
 
NOTE: If for technical reasons a larger paint coat thickness is necessary, this shall be agreed upon 
by the parties involved. However, all other requirements stated in TL 211 shall be fulfilled. 
Exceptions: only primed parts < 50 µm (see section 6.1). Any deviation from this can only be made 
through a drawing entry or a separate release. 
4.2 
Structure 
4.2.1 
Base material 
Plastic acc. to drawing  
4.2.2 
Primer coat / filler / primer surfacer (see section 6.1) 
If specified (by drawing, release or color standard) or required for technical reasons (depending on 
substrate). 
4.2.3 
Top coat or intermediate coat (solid color, metallic, pearlescent finish) 
Base coat acc. to color standard or custom color combination chart, free of cadmium or cadmium 
compounds. 
4.2.4 
Clear coat (if required for decorative or technical reasons) 
Acc. to released sample, testing acc. to IR spectrum. 
4.3 
 Paint systems and layer thicknesses in µm 
See table 1. 
Table 1 
No. System 
Primer coat Single-layer 
paint 
Double-layer 
paint 
Multi-layer 
paint 
Single-layer 
piano 
lacquer 
Double-layer 
piano 
lacquer 
1 
Total layer 
thickness: 
10 to 50 
20 to 40 
30 to 90 
32 to 135 
67 to 165 
67 to 165 
2 
Primer 
surfacer 
2 to 10 
- 
2 to 10 
or 
20 to 50 
2 to 10 
2 to 10 
2 to 10 
3 
Primer coat/ 
filler 
20 to 50 
- 
2 to 10 
or 
20 to 50 
20 to 50 
20 to 50 
20 to 50 
4 
Top coat 
- 
20 to 40 
20 to 40 
- 
Intermediate 
coat 
 
Water-based 
paint 
- 
10 to 35 
10 to 35 
10 to 35 
Solid color 
- 
15 to 35 
15 to 35 
15 to 35 
Metallic 
- 
10 to 35 
10 to 35 
10 to 35 
5 
Pearlescent 
- 
10 to 35 
10 to 35 
10 to 35 
6 
Clear coat 
- 
20 to 40 1) 
20 to 40 
35 to 45 
55 to 70 
1)  This only applies to parts with base coat/clear coat paint system without primer coat, filler or 
primer surfacer. 
 


Page 4 
TL 211: 2003-03 
 
5 
Properties requirements 
See table 2. 
Table 2 
No. 
Properties 
Requirements 
1 
Visual properties of single-layer and double-layer piano lacquer and premium paint of 
high-gloss brilliant appearance 
1.1 
Gloss acc. to DIN 67 530, 20° 
 
Double-layer piano lacquer 
> 90 
 
Single-layer piano lacquer 
> 90 
 
Brilliant solid color, pearlescent and 
metallic paints 
> 90 (-5, conditionally up to –10) 
 
Other paints 
Acc. to drawing or surface performance 
specifications LAH 983 018 
1.2 
Color acc. to DIN 5033-4, DIN 6174, DIN 
6175-2 (applies to first samples and 
standard production colors only) 
Acc. to VW 501 95 
1.3 
Structure of 
measuring system: Wave-scan plus, measurement acc. to manufacturer’s specifications 
 
Double-layer piano lacquer 
LW < 5; SW < 10 
 
Single-layer piano lacquer 
LW < 7; SW < 18 
 
Brilliant solid color, pearlescent and 
metallic paints 
LW < 13; SW 10 to 30 
 
Other paints 
acc. to drawing or surface performance 
specifications LAH 983 018 
2 
Adhesion 
2.1 
Crosscut test 
acc. to DIN EN ISO 2409 and 
section 6.2 
involving tear-off of adhesive tape 
Gt 0 to 1 
2.2 
Behavior in steam jet test 
acc. to PV 1503 
No stripping of paintwork 
3 
Behavior in moisture condensate 
constant climate 
acc. to DIN 50 017 KK, 
test duration 240 h 
Subsequent acclimatization for 30 min at 
room temperature 
1. 
Evaluation of blister grade after 30 min acc. 
to DIN 53 209 (m2g2 still permissible) 
2. 
Evaluation after 24 h, blister grade acc. to 
DIN 53 209, m0g0 (in case of prior 
blistering, testing of paint adhesion shall be 
performed in that same area) 
3. 
Requirements stated in table 2, no. 2 
shall still be fulfilled 
4 
Environmental cycle test  
acc. to PV 2005 A 
(individual parts) 50 cycles 
No change in the paint surface 
5 
Temperature cycle test behavior 
5.1 
Aging at elevated temperature 
Aging in mechanically circulated air 
Test duration 240 h 
Test temperature (90 ± 2) °C 
Subsequent acclimatization for at least 
30 min at room temperature 
Requirements stated in table 2, no. 2 shall still 
be fulfilled 


Page 5 
TL 211: 2003-03 
 
No. 
Properties 
Requirements 
5.1.2 
Low-temperature aging 
After aging at elevated temperature, the 
same specimen shall be exposed to low-
temperature aging 
Test duration 24 h, 
Test temperature (-40 ± 3) °C 
Subsequent acclimatization for at least 
30 min at room temperature 
Requirements stated in table 2, no. 2 shall still 
be fulfilled 
5.2 
Low-temperature behavior 
Aging period 24 h 
5.2.1 
Impact test 
based on ISO 4532, see section 6.3 
(-40 ± 3) °C 
No chipping and no cracks in paint coating 
6 
Stone impact test 
6.1 
Acc. to DIN 55 996-1 
Characteristic value 2.0 
6.2 
Acc. to PV 1217 
For requirements see drawing 
7 
Resistance to water vapor 
see section 6.4 
For requirements see drawing 
8 
Resistance to chemicals 
acc. to VDA test sheet 621 412 
as compared to: 
8.1 
FAM test fuel 
(test A4.1.1Y) 
Reversible swellings permissible, there shall be 
no changes in the paint surface after 24 h. 
8.2 
Gasoline premium unleaded 
acc. to DIN EN 228 (test A4.1.3Y) 
No change in the paint surface 
8.3 
Diesel fuel 
acc. to TL 788 (test A4.1.2X) 
No change in the paint surface 
8.4 
Diesel fuel consisting of vegetable oil 
methyl ester (PME) 
acc. to DIN 51 606 (test A4.1.1Y) 
No change in the paint surface 
8.5 
Engine oil 
acc. to TL 521 73 (test A4.1.4) 
No change in the paint surface 
8.6 
Brake fluid 
acc. to TL 766 (test A4.2.2Y, filter layer) 
Reversible swellings permissible, there shall be 
no changes in the paint surface after 24 h 
8.7 
Coolant 
acc. to TL 774 (test A4.2.2X) 
No change in the paint surface 
8.8 
Polish 
see section 6.4 
(part No. 00V 096 318 001) 
No change in the paint surface 
8.9 
Bitumen and tar remover 
see section 6.6 
No change in the paint surface 
8.10 
Sealant and sealant remover 
see sections 6.5 and 6.6 
No change in the paint surface 
8.11 
Thinner for plastic primer coat 
(original: VW-ALV 001 001 10) 
10 min at room temperature 
(applies to primed after-sales parts only) 
see section 6.7 
No change in the paint surface 
8.12 
Thinner for primer coat 
(original: VW-ALV 015 003 A5) 
10 min at room temperature 
(applies to primed after-sales parts only) 
see section 6.7 
No change in the paint surface 


Page 6 
TL 211: 2003-03 
 
No. 
Properties 
Requirements 
8.13 
Silicone remover 
(original: VW-LSE 020 000 A3) 
10 min at room temperature 
(applies to primed after-sales parts only) 
see section 6.7 
No change in the paint surface 
9 
Simulated oil soot exposure 
acc. to VDA 621 408 
No change in the paint surface 
10 
Light and weather fastness (short-term 
test method) 
 
10.1 
Weathering in humid heat 
acc. to PV 3930 
(corresponding to Florida) 
test duration: 1-year cycle 
No visible change in gloss and color permissible, 
see section 6.8 
Requirements stated in table 2, no. 2.1 shall still 
be fulfilled 
10.2 
Weathering in dry heat 
acc. to PV 3929 
(corresponding to Kalahari and Arizona) 
test duration: 1-year cycle 
No visible change in gloss and color permissible, 
see section 6.8 
Requirements stated in table 2, no. 2.1 shall still 
be fulfilled 
11 
Resistance of clear coat to UV radiation 
acc. to PV 1502/12.96 
(use specified plastic material) 
test duration: 600 h for elastic clear 
coats, e.g. on EPDM 
No cracking of the clear coat 
12 
Testing of weather fastness 
(open-air weathering) 
(Only for release testing) 
12.1 
Weathering in humid heat 
(corresponding to Florida) 
acc. to VDA test sheet 621 403 
test duration: 24 months 
No visible color change No other change in the 
paint coat, like e.g. chalking, blistering or cracks 
12.2 
Weathering in dry heat 
(corresponding to Kalahari or Arizona) 
acc. to VDA test sheet 621 403 
test duration: 24 months 
No visible color change No other change in the 
paint coat, like e.g. chalking, blistering or cracks 
6 
Notes on testing 
All sections of parts which are not subject to the requirements stated in this TL standard shall be 
identified so in the drawing. 
Prior to testing, the parts shall be conditioned acc. to VDA 621 417. 
The room temperature with narrow air temperature range stated in this document is 18 °C to 28 °C 
acc. to DIN 50 014. 
6.1 
Primer coat / filler / primer surfacer 
Do not use parts coated with top coat for customer service parts that are only primed. 
Plastic parts which are only primed shall only fulfill the requirements specified in table 2, no. 2 to 6 
and 8.11 to 8.13. 
6.2 
Crosscut test 
Please take greater care than with metal substrate to ensure that the cuts made in the crosscut test 
do enter the substrate, however, do not go too deep. Press the adhesive tape (“Tesagewebeband 
4657” by Tesa) firmly onto the surface before removing it. 


Page 7 
TL 211: 2003-03 
 
6.3 
Impact test 
Impact test acc. to DIN ISO 4532, however, a specified testing force of 90 N on a rigid base plate 
shall be used. 
6.4 
Resistance to water vapor 
The painted surface of the part under test shall be placed over a steaming water surface for 2 min 
at a distance of 5 cm. 
6.5 
Polish 
Apply polish (part no. 00V 096 318 001) with a cellulose pad, let dry and polish off subsequently 
with cellulose. 
6.6 
Bitumen and tar remover 
Mix 5 g Panmex bitumen "85/25" by Esso with 5 ml petroleum ether to yield a paste. Thoroughly 
cover an area with a diamter of approx. 3 cm with this paste. After an exposure period of 1 h, the 
part is cleaned of the tar paste with a tar cleaner (No. 000 096 501 A 001). 
6.7 
Sealant 
1. 
Sealant AKR 321 W 30 (product designations: W 550-2, Pfinders, Böblingen, Germany or CA 
66 D Caramba, Duisburg, Germany) and 
2. 
Acrylate sealant AKR 318 A 20 (product designation Tempal KSL, Sahm Chemie, Dillenburg, 
Germany). 
6.8 
Sealant remover 
One section is coated with sealant by immersion. After conditioning the part for 24 h at room 
temperature, the wax layer shall be washed off by agitating the part in hot (80 °C) kerosene for 3 
min. 
6.9 
Thinner and silicone remover 
Depth filters (diameter 3.6 cm, item no. 08960, by Seitz-Filter-Werke, Bad Kreuznach, Germany) 
shall be immersed in thinner or silicone remover (until they are well soaked); after the excess liquid 
has dripped off, they subsequently shall be placed on the primer coat of the plastic part and 
immediately covered by a petri dish or a crucible. 
 
6.10 
Changes in color and gloss 
Clean all coatings prior to evaluation. 
 
Clean matte black paint coatings only with water to which a commercially available detergent has 
been added.  
Clean solid color and metallic paint coatings with a paint cleaner (00V 096 305 001). 


Page 8 
TL 211: 2003-03 
 
7 
Referenced standards1 
TL 766 
Brake Fluid; Material Requirements 
TL 774 
Ethylene Glycol-Based Coolant Additive; Material Requirements 
TL 788 
Diesel Fuel, Fuel Requirements 
TL 521 73 
Factory Fill Engine Oil SAE 0W-30 with Fuel-Saving Properties for 
Extended Oil Change Intervals; Requirements, Testing 
PV 1502 
Clear Coat in Dual Layer Metallic Paint Coatings; Test of Resistance to 
Cracking 
PV 1503 
Paint Coating of Non-Metallic Materials; Paint Adhesion, Steam Jet Test 
PV 2005 
Vehicle Parts; Testing of Resistance to Environmental Cycle Test 
PV 3929 
Non-Metallic Materials; Weather Aging in Dry, Hot Climate 
PV 3930 
Non-Metallic Materials; Weathering in Humid Heat 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 501 85 
Vehicle Components; Resistance to Open Air Weathering 
VW 501 95 
Colorimetric Evaluation of Automobile Paint Coatings 
VW 911 01 
Vehicle Environmental Standard; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids; 
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN 5033-4 
Colorimetry; Spectrophotometric Method 
DIN 6174 
Colorimetric Evaluation of Color Differences of Surface Colors According to 
the CIELAB Formula 
DIN 6175-2 
Tolerances for Automotive Paints; Part 2: Goniochromatic Paints 
DIN 50 014 
Climates and their Technical Application; Standard Atmospheres 
DIN 50 017 
Climates and their Technical Application; Condensated Water-Containing 
Climates 
DIN 53 209 
Designation of Degree of Blistering of Paint Coatings 
DIN 55 996-1 
Paints and Varnishes; Stone Chip Resistance Test for Coatings, Part 1: 
Multi Impact Test 
DIN 67 530 
Reflectometer as a Means for Gloss Assessment of Plane Surfaces of Paint 
Coatings and Plastics 
DIN EN 228 
Automotive Fuels; Unleaded Petrol; Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 14 214 
Automotive Fuels; Fatty Acid Methyl Esters (FAME) for Diesel Engines; 
Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN ISO 2409 
Paints and Varnishes, Crosscut Test 
DIN ISO 4532 
Vitreous and Porcelain Enamels, Determination of the Resistance of 
Enameled Articles to Impact; Pistol Test 
VDA 621 403 
Tests for Coating Methods, Testing of Weather Fastness (Open-Air 
Weathering) 
VDA 621 408 
Tests for Coating Methods; Test of Paint Coatings for Color Change by 
Simulated Oil Soot Exposure 
                                                
1 In this section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
 


Page 9 
TL 211: 2003-03 
 
VDA 621 412 
Tests for Coating Methods; Resistance to Chemicals of Automotive Paints 
VDA 621 417 
Tests for Coating Methods; Conditioning of Plastic Coatings Prior to Start of 
Testing 
