# TL212_EN_2002-08-01.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 50 21 1
August 2002
Anodized Coatings on Aluminum Parts
Requirements for Surface Protection
TL 212
Konzernnorm
Descriptors:
aluminum, aluminium, anodized coating, anodized layer, oxide coating,
anodizing, anodising
Page 1 of 5
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
K-QS-32
Frau Dr. Hasse
Tel:-42106
Laudien
Wiesner
Tel.: +49-5361-9-29064
Sobanski
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 12.00
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to TL 212, 2000-10:
─ 
Sealing quality requirements supplemented (section 3.6), also with respect to alkali resistance
─ 
Standard restructured
Previous issues
1974-10; 1984-08; 1985-07; 2000-10
1 
Scope
This standard specifies requirements for anodic oxide coatings on pure aluminum and aluminum
wrought alloy parts. In the following the individual surface protection types and the related
requirements are described, which basically differ concerning their field of application.
The coatings are suitable for decorative interior and exterior automobile components; however,
they can also be applied for achieving functional surface properties.
2 
Designation
According to VW 137 50, section 2.
3 
Requirements
3.1 
Surface protection types
3.1.1 
Decorative applications
See table 1. These protective coatings are especially used for interior and exterior parts with
moderate corrosion load (e.g. for decorative elements or on window slot strip).
NOTE: If increased requirements for weather resistance and/or chemical resistance of decorative
add-on parts are applied, parts may be additionally coated with an organic or mineral inorganic
coating (TL concerning this topic in preparation) upon agreement with the VOLKSWAGEN Central
Laboratory and / or with the AUDI Test Laboratory (I/GQ-3 or N/GQ-55).
The English translation is believed to be accurate.
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.


Page 2
TL 212: 2002-8
Table 1 
Surface
protection type
Ofl-w610
Ofl-w620
Ofl-w630
Ofl-w640
Ofl-w660 a
Ofl-w670 a
Anodized coating
anodized acc. to DS, DSX, for example
coil-anodized
Appearance
transparent
dyed
transparent
dyed
Finish
matte
bright
matte
bright
matte
bright
a The transparent coil-anodized materials in matte and bright version (Ofl-w660 and Ofl-w670)
shall not be used for newly designed components.
3.1.2 
Technical / functional applications
See table 2. These coatings are primarily used for corrosion and/or wear protection for interior and
exterior components. The surfaces of the anodized parts shall exhibit a uniform optical
appearance.
Table 2 
Surface
protection
type
Ofl-w180
Ofl-w680
Ofl-w690
Ofl-w695
Procedure
transparent anodized
hard anodized
hard anodized
impregnated
Application/
example
Surface protection
coating with low
corrosion
protection
requirements (e.g.
ABS valve block)
Surface protection
coating with
moderate corrosion
protection
requirements (e.g.
brake master
cylinder)
Surface protection
coating with
primarily high wear
protection
requirements
and/or high
corrosion
protection
requirements (e.g.
brake master
cylinder)
Surface protection
coating with
primarily high wear
protection
requirements
and/or high
corrosion
protection
requirements (e.g.
brake caliper
cylinder)
3.2 
General requirements
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55.
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01.
10 finished parts are required for complete testing.
The protective coatings shall not exhibit any pores, cracks, damages or other flaws that impair
corrosion protection and/or the specified appearance.


Page 3
TL 212: 2002-08
3.3 
Appearance
These requirements apply to surface protection types Ofl-w610, w620, w630 and w640.
The specimens are evaluated with the naked eye and in natural light.
The component properties regarding finish (e.g. degree of glossiness or structure) and color shall
be evaluated according to the released original sample. Corresponding maximum deviation
samples shall be specified by the persons responsible for quality in standard production monitoring.
Part finish shall be free of polishing flaws, scratches, damages or similar flaws that impair the
appearance of the part. The whole surface of the component shall not display patchiness, shades
or loss of glossiness.
3.4 
Layer thickness
The layer thickness is determined acc. to DIN EN ISO 2360 or DIN EN ISO 1463. In case of
conflict, the specifications acc. to DIN EN ISO 1463 apply. For special areas that affect the
functioning, the measuring point shall be specified in the drawing.
The specifications stated in table 3 shall be used as a basis.
Table 3 
Surface
protection type
Layer thickness (in
µm)
Ofl-w180
2 to 5
Ofl-w610/w620
5 to 10
Ofl-w630/w640
8 to 15
Ofl-w660/w670
 2
Ofl-w680
8 to 15
Ofl-w690/w695
> 25
3.5 
Corrosion resistance
3.5.1 
Salt spray fog test
Test: acc. to DIN 50 021-SS for 240 h for surface protection type Ofl-w180, for 480 h for the others;
requirements: no visual surface change due to corrosive effects.
3.5.2 
Moisture condensate alternating atmosphere test
These requirements apply to surface protection types Ofl-w610, w620, w630 and w640.
Test: 5 cycles acc. to DIN 50 018-KFW 2.0 S;
Requirement: no change in the surface appearance caused by corrosion; in case decorative
elements display slight staining or patchiness after testing, it must be possible to remove this using
polishing cotton or a light commercial polishing agent.


Page 4
TL 212: 2002-8
3.6 
Sealing quality
3.6.1 
Loss of absorptive power
Test: acc. to DIN EN 12 373-4;
Requirement: max. value for loss of absorptive power: 1
3.6.2 
Alkali resistance (only for decorative parts applied on the vehicle exterior)
If the specimen is soiled with oil, grease or similar substances, the surface shall be cleaned with a
suitable solvent and dried.
Test: 
The specimen shall be immersed in an aluminum-free test solution comprising 2 g/l Na3PO4, 200
mg/l Cl-, pH = 12.5  0.2 (achieved through NaOH and H3PO4) at a temperature of 18 °C to 20 °C.
A length of approx. 10 cm of the anodically oxidized surface of the specimen shall be immersed for
ten minutes in the test solvent. The surface is then rinsed with distilled (or fully desalinated) water
and dried in air. After the immersion process the specimen shall be subjected to moisture
condensate alternating atmosphere DIN 50 018 KFW 2.0 SO2 for 5 cycles and subsequently be
evaluated.
Requirements:
No visual change after treatment of the surface with a commercial polishing agent or with an
aqueous suspension of magnesium oxide and polishing cotton.
No visibly perceptible immersion line.
3.7 
Temperature resistance
These requirements apply to surface protection types Ofl-w610, w620, w630 and w640.
Test: 1 h bei +100 °C;
Requirement: no visible cracks in the oxide coating.
3.8 
Weather resistance
These requirements apply to surface protection types Ofl-w630 and w640.
Test acc. to PV 3929, intensity of irradiation 400 MJ/m².
Requirement: no visual surface change.
3.9 
Layer hardness
These requirements apply to surface protection types Ofl-w690 and w695.
Test: Vickers microhardness acc. to DIN ISO 4516.
Requirement: (450 to 550) HV 0.025.


Page 5
TL 212: 2002-08
4 
Referenced standards1
PV 3929
Non-Metallic Materials; Weather Aging in Dry, Hot Climate
VW 011 55
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 137 50
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Degrees of Protection, Codes,
Requirements
VW 911 01
Vehicle Environmental Standard; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids;
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
DIN 50 018
Testing in a Saturated Atmosphere in the Presence of Sulfur Dioxide
DIN 50 021
Spray Tests with Different Sodium Chloride Solutions
DIN ISO 4516
Metallic and Other Inorganic Coatings; Vickers and Knoop Microhardness
Tests
DIN EN 12373-4
Aluminum and Aluminum Alloys; Anodizing – Part 4 Estimation of Loss of
Absorptive Power of Anodic Oxidation Coatings after Sealing by Dye Spot Test
with Prior Acid Treatment
DIN EN ISO 1463
Metallic and Oxide Coatings - Measurement of Coating Thickness -
Microscopical Method
DIN EN ISO 2360
Non-Conductive Coatings on Non-Magnetic Basis Metals - Measurement of
Coating Thickness - Eddy Current method
                                               
1 In this section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
