# TL211_EN_2009-10-01.pdf

Paint Coatings on Exterior Plastic Parts
Requirements
Previous issues
TL 211: 1974-11, 1983-10, 1989-07, 1992-08, 1992-09, 1995-03, 1995-10, 1998-06, 2003-02,
2003-03, 2009-09
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to TL 211: 2009-09:
–
Mistake in specification of the test duration in Table 2, No. 11.1 corrected
Scope
This Technical Supply Specification (TL standard) defines requirements for primer coat, single and
multi-layer paint coatings acc. to color standard or custom color combination chart on plastic parts
(body-mounted parts, e.g. bumper, wheel cover, rear spoiler, trunk lid, liftgate, fender, etc).
Description
Paint coat acc. to TL 211
Requirements
General requirements
Approval of first supply and changes acc. to Volkswagen standard VW 01155.
Avoidance of hazardous substances acc. to VW 91101.
1  
2  
3  
3.1  
Group Standard
TL 211
Issue 2009-10
Class. No.:
50243
Descriptors:
paint, paint coating, exterior plastic part, bumper, wheel cover, rear spoiler, trunk lid, liftgate, fender
Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
Numerical notation acc. to ISO practice.
Page 1 of 8
Technical responsibility
Standards Department
GQL-LP/2
Angela Kern
Tel.: +49-5361-9-28507
GQL-LP/2
Dr. Annett Schramm
GQL-LP
Dr. Roger Hillert
EKDV/4 Jürgen Wiesner
EKDV
Tel.: +49-5361-9-29064
Manfred Terlinden
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform www.vwgroupsupply.com.
© Volkswagen Aktiengesellschaft
VWNORM-2008-12g


In case pretreatment is necessary to activate the substrate, the related method must be specified
(e.g. flame exposure, plasma treatment, etc.).
The coating/paint as well as potential refinishing paint must adhere firmly to the substrate or to the
original paint coat.
All areas of parts which are not subject to the requirements stated in this TL standard must be iden‐
tified as such in the drawing.
The supplier must provide the following information for all parts to be tested:
1.
Specification of the base material (manufacturer designation and VDA (German Association of
the Automotive Industry) designation)
2.
Color
3.
Paint structure (precise paint specifications, paint supplier), e.g.:
Primer coat: 2-component primer coat 01-79008, by XXX, 20 μm
Base coat: 831646, by XXX, 20 μm
Clear coat: 2-component clear coat GP72-0113, by XXX, 22 μm
4.
Paint shop worker
5.
Paint shop unit
6.
Paint shop
7.
Painting date
Appearance and haptic characteristics
The parts must exhibit a uniform appearance on their entire surface; they must conform to the drawing
requirements and to the released sample with respect to gloss and color.
Pores, coarse cracks and other flaws that adversely affect the specified appearance are not permis‐
sible.
Color and gloss level are to be documented in the first-sample test report or development sample
test report acc. to VW 50195.
Open-air weathering
All painted components in the Volkswagen Group are subjected to open-air weathering acc. to
VW 50185.
The supplier is obligated to remove the cause for complaints occurring during this test and to improve
the paint system.
Paint process
The paint process must be coordinated between the paint shop and the paint manufacturer. Both
parties confirm the first-sample test report, meaning that both are responsible for fulfilling the specified
requirements.
Responsibilities are broken down as follows:
–
The paint manufacturer provides information on the fulfillment of the requirements stipulated in
the Technical Supply Specification, processing guidelines, and support regarding the applied
paint method.
–
The paint shop provides information about the substrate (type of plastic material and commercial
name), checks the requirements as early as possible (this also applies to pre-series parts: at
3.2  
3.3  
3.4  
Page 2
TL 211: 2009-10


least for adhesion), confirms compliance with the processing guidelines of the paint manufacturer
and demands support regarding the applied paint method.
Conditioning
All samples delivered for testing must be pre-conditioned:
7 days at room temperature with narrow air temperature range (18 °C to 28 °C) or 48 h at 60 °C. The
tests are carried out after cooling down at room temperature for at least one hour.
Requirements on structure and paint coat thickness
General information
Only one single refinishing paint job is permissible, considering the total paint coat thickness of <
150 µm (in the case of piano lacquer, paint coat thickness according to release status or drawing).
In principle, the following color combinations are permissible for re-painting:
1.
First and second coat are of the same color
2.
Permissible first coats for all colors: black, dark blue shades, dark gray shades (also metallic or
pearlescent finishes)
Other color combinations must be agreed upon with the relevant release departments of each brand.
NOTE 1 If for technical reasons an increased total paint coat thickness is necessary, this must be
agreed upon by the parties involved. However, all other requirements stated in TL 211 must be ful‐
filled.
Exceptions: Only primed parts < 50 μm1). Deviations require a corresponding drawing entry or a
separate release.
Structure
Base material
Plastic acc. to drawing.
Primer coat/filler/primer surfacer1)
If specified (by drawing, release or color standard) or required for technical reasons (depending on
substrate).
Top coat or intermediate coat (solid color, metallic, pearlescent finish)
Base coat acc. to color standard or custom color combination chart, free of cadmium or cadmium
compounds.
Clear coat (if required for decorative or technical reasons)
Acc. to released sample, testing acc. to IR spectrum.
3.5  
4  
4.1  
4.2  
4.2.1  
4.2.2  
4.2.3  
4.2.4  
1)
Parts already coated with top coat must not be used for after-sales service parts that are only primed. Plastic parts which are only
primed must only fulfill the requirements specified in Table 2, no. 2 to 6 and 8.11 to 8.13.
Page 3
TL 211: 2009-10


Paint systems and paint coat thicknesses in µm
See Table 1.
Table 1
No. System
Primer coat
Single-layer
paint
Double-layer
paint
Multi-layer
paint
Single-layer pi‐
ano lacquer
Double-layer
piano lacquer
1
Total paint coat
thickness
2 to 50
20 to 40
22 to 90
32 to 125
47 to 130
67 to 165
2
Primer surfac‐
er/primer coat/
filler
2 to 50
–
2 to 50
2 to 50
2 to 50
2 to 50
3
Top coat
–
20 to 40
20 to 40
–
–
–
4
Intermediate coat
Solid color
–
–
–
15 to 35
15 to 35
15 to 35
Metallic/
pearlescent
–
–
–
10 to 35
10 to 35
10 to 35
5
Clear coat
–
–
20 to 40a)
20 to 40
35 to 45
55 to 80
a)
This only applies to parts with base coat/clear coat paint system without primer coat, filler or primer surfacer.
Property requirements
See Table 2.
Table 2
No.
Property
Requirement
1
Visual properties of single-layer and double-layer piano lacquer and special paint of high-gloss brilliant appearance
1.1
Gloss acc. to DIN EN ISO 2813
Double-layer piano lacquer
> 90
Single-layer piano lacquer
> 90
Brilliant solid color, pearlescent and metallic paints
> 85 (conditionally up to -5)
Other paints
Acc. to drawing or surface performance specifications
LAH 893 018
1.2
Color acc. to DIN 5033-4, DIN 6174, DIN 6175-2 (applies
to first samples and standard production colors only)
Acc. to VW 50195
1.3
Structure; measuring system: Wave-scan plus, measurement acc. to manufacturer’s specifications
Double-layer piano lacquer
LW < 5; SW < 10
Single-layer piano lacquer
LW < 7; SW < 18
Brilliant solid color, pearlescent and metallic paints
LW < 13; SW 10 to 30
Other paints
Acc. to drawing or surface performance specifications
LAH 893 018
4.3  
5  
Page 4
TL 211: 2009-10


No.
Property
Requirement
2
Adhesion
 
2.1
Cross-cut test acc. to DIN EN ISO 2409 a) with removal
of adhesive tape.
Cross-cut test characteristic value ≤ 1
2.2
Behavior in pressure washer test
acc. to Test Specification PV 1503
Delamination of the paint coat is not permitted.
3
Condensed water test in CH test atmosphere acc. to
DIN EN ISO 6270-2, test duration 240 h.
1. Evaluation after 30 min acc. to DIN EN ISO 4628-2,
degree of blistering 2 (S2) is still permissible.
2. Evaluation after 24 h acc. to DIN EN ISO 4628-2, de‐
gree of blistering 0 (S0). If blistering occurs earlier, testing
of paint adhesion is to be performed in that very area. The
requirements acc. to Table 2, consec. no. 2 must still be
complied with.
3. Visual changes to the paint surface are not permissible.
4
Environmental cycle test acc. to Test Specification
PV 1200, 20 cycles
Visible changes to the paint surface are not permissible.
5
Behavior in temperature cycle test
5.1
Aging at elevated temperature
Aging in recirculated air, 240 h at (+90 ± 2) °C followed
by at least 30 min of acclimatization at room temperature.
The requirements acc. to Table 2, consec. no. 2 must still
be complied with.
Visual changes to the paint surface are not permissible.
5.1.1
Low-temperature aging.
After aging at elevated temperature, the same specimens
are to be exposed to low-temperature aging. Test dura‐
tion 24 h, test temperature (-40 ± 2) °C followed by at least
30 min of acclimatization at room temperature.
The requirements acc. to Table 2, consec. no. 2 must still
be complied with.
Visual changes to the paint surface are not permissible.
5.2
Low-temperature behavior, aging duration 24 h
5.2.1
Impact test based on DIN ISO 4532 b), (-40 ± 3) °C
Chipping and cracks in the paint coat are not permissible.
6
Stone impact test
acc. to DIN EN ISO 20567-1, Method B
Characteristic value ≤ 2,0
7
Car wash resistance
Scratch resistance acc. to PV 3.3.3
VE ≥ 1
VR ≥ 1 after reflowc)
8
Resistance to chemicals with respect to
8.1
FAM test fuel acc. to DIN EN ISO 2812-3 (procedure with
absorbent material), 10 min at room temperature
Reversible swellings permissible, no visible changes to
the paint surface permissible after 24 h.
8.2
Super unleaded gasoline acc. to DIN EN 228 and
DIN EN ISO 2812-3 (procedure with absorbent material),
10 min at room temperature
Visible changes to the paint surface are not permissible.
8.3
Diesel fuel acc. to TL 788 and DIN EN ISO 2812-3 (pro‐
cedure with absorbent material), 1 h at room temperature
Visible changes to the paint surface are not permissible.
8.4
Diesel made from fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) acc. to
DIN EN 14214 and DIN EN ISO 2812-3 (procedure with
absorbent material), 1 h at room temperature
Visible changes to the paint surface are not permissible.
Page 5
TL 211: 2009-10


No.
Property
Requirement
8.5
Engine oil acc. to TL 52173 (Burmah Castrol oil code
A97075PBC) and DIN EN ISO 2812-4 (spotting method),
16 h at room temperature
Visible changes to the paint surface are not permissible.
8.6
Brake fluid acc. to TL 766 and DIN EN ISO 2812-3 (pro‐
cedure with absorbent material), 1 h at room temperature
Reversible swellings permissible, no visible changes to
the paint surface permissible after 24 h.
8.7
Coolant acc. to TL 774 and DIN EN ISO 2812-3 (proce‐
dure with absorbent material), 1 h at room temperature
Visible changes to the paint surface are not permissible.
8.8
Polishd) (commercially available, e.g. Sonax car polish)
Visible changes to the paint surface are not permissible.
8.9
Bitumen and tar removere)
Visible changes to the paint surface are not permissible.
8.10
Bird feces substitute (pancreatin) acc. to
DIN EN ISO 2812-4 (spotting method), 6 h at +45 °C in
oven, cleaned under running water, 2 h at +60 °C in oven
(regeneration)
Visible changes to the paint surface are not permissible
after cooling to room temperature.
8.11
Tree resin acc. to DIN EN ISO 2812-4 (spotting method),
6 h at +45 °C in oven, cleaned with petroleum ether in
warm condition, 2 h at +60 °C in oven (regeneration)
Visible changes to the paint surface are not permissible
after cooling to room temperature.
8.12
Preservative filmf)
Reversible swellings permissible, no visible changes to
the paint surface permissible after 24 h. Adhesive
residues after removal of the preservative film are not
permitted.
8.13
Commercially available nitrocellulose thinner (applies on‐
ly to primed after-sales service parts) acc. to
DIN EN ISO 2812-3 (procedure with absorbent material),
10 min at room temperature
Visible changes to the paint surface are not permissible.
9
Light and weather resistance (short-term tests)
9.1
Weathering in humid heat
acc. to PV 3930 
(corresponding to Florida)
test duration: 2 year cycles for replaceable add-on parts,
3 year cycles for body parts
Visible changes to color and gloss are not permissibleg).
The requirements acc. to Table 2, consec. no. 2.1 must
still be met.
9.2
Weathering in dry heat 
acc. to PV 3929 
(corresponding to Kalahari and Arizona) 
test duration: 2 year cycles for replaceable add-on parts,
3 year cycles for body parts
Visible changes to color and gloss are not permissibleg).
The requirements acc. to Table 2, consec. no. 2.1 must
still be met.
10
Resistance of the clear coat against UV radiation acc. to
PV 1502 (on the specified plastic), test duration: 1000 h
Formation of cracks in the clear coat is not permissible.
11
Weather resistance in nature (open-air weathering)
(Only for release testing)
Page 6
TL 211: 2009-10


No.
Property
Requirement
11.1
Weathering in humid heat
(Florida/USA) acc. to VDA 621-403, test duration:
24 months
Visible changes to the color and other changes to the
paintwork such as cracks, chalking or blistering are not
permitted.
11.2
Weathering in dry heat
(Kalahari, Arizona) acc. to VDA 621-403, test duration:
48 months
Visible changes to the color and other changes to the
paintwork such as cracks, chalking or blistering are not
permitted.
a)
Please take greater care than with metal substrate to ensure that the cuts made in the crosscut test do enter the substrate, however,
do not go too deep. Press the adhesive tape („Tesagewebeband 4657“ by Tesa) firmly onto the surface before removing it.
b)
Deviation: specified testing force 90 N and usage of a rigid support.
c)
Reference clear coat ALD096050, made by BASF, reference sheets can be obtained from PKP-L/C.
d)
Apply polish with a cellulose pad, let dry and then buff with cotton.
e)
5 g "industrial bitumen OX DE 85/25" by Esso, Hamburg, stirred with 5 ml petroleum ether to make a paste. Thoroughly cover an area
with a diameter of approx. 3 cm with this paste. After 1 h exposure period, the part is cleaned of the tar paste using tar remover
(commercially available, e.g. Sonax tar remover).
f)
The coating must be tested acc. to QP R015, Section 3.12 using the released transit protection materials used in standard production
(e.g. Bodygard 50530 by Tesa).
g)
All coatings must be cleaned prior to evaluation. Black matt paint coats are to be cleaned only with clear water with a commercially
available wetting agent (e.g. Pril) added, solid and metallic paint coats using commercially available polish.
Referenced documents
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary for application.
In this Section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
Standards with the titles given in German are either only available in German or may be procured in
other languages from the institution issuing the standard.
PV 1200
Vehicle Parts; Testing of Resistance to Environmental Cycle Test
(+80/-40) °C
PV 1502
Clear Coat for Dual-Layer Metallic Paint Coatings; Testing for Resistance
to Cracking
PV 1503
Paint Coating of Metallic and Non-Metallic Materials; Pressure Washer
Test
PV 3.3.3
Paints and Varnishes; Scratch Resistance Testing of Clear Coats
PV 3929
Non-Metallic Materials; Weather Aging in Dry, Hot Climate
PV 3930
Non-Metallic Materials; Weathering in Moist, Hot Climate
QP R015
Self-Adhesive Film; Quality Requirements
TL 52173
Factory-Fill Engine Oil SAE 0W-30 with Fuel-Saving Properties for Ex‐
tended Oil Change Intervals; Requirements, Testing
TL 766
Brake Fluid; Material Requirements
TL 774
Ethylene Glycol-Based Coolant Additive; Material Requirements
TL 788
Diesel Fuel; Fuel Requirements
VW 01155
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 50185
Vehicle Parts; Resistance to Open-Air Weathering
VW 50195
Colorimetric Evaluation of Automobile Paint Coatings
6  
Page 7
TL 211: 2009-10


VW 91101
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
DIN 5033-4
Colorimetry; spectrophotometric method
DIN 6174
Colorimetric evaluation of colour coordinates and colour differences ac‐
cording to the approximately uniform CIELAB colour space
DIN 6175-2
Tolerances for automotive paints - Part 2: Goniochromatic paints
DIN EN 14214
Automotive fuels - Fatty acid methyl esters (FAME) for diesel engines -
Requirements and test methods
DIN EN 228
Automotive fuels - Unleaded petrol - Requirements and test methods
DIN EN ISO 20567-1
Paints and varnishes - Determination of stone-chip resistance of coatings
- Part 1: Multi-impact testing
DIN EN ISO 2409
Paints and varnishes - Cross-cut test
DIN EN ISO 2812-3
Paints and varnishes - Determination of resistance to liquids - Part 3:
Method using an absorbent medium
DIN EN ISO 2812-4
Paints and varnishes - Determination of resistance to liquids - Part 4:
Spotting methods
DIN EN ISO 2813
Paints and varnishes - Determination of specular gloss of non-metallic
paint films at 20°, 60° und 85°
DIN EN ISO 4628-2
Paints and varnishes - Evaluation of degradation of coatings - Designation
of quantity and size of defects, and of intensity of uniform changes in ap‐
pearance - Part 2: Assessment of degree of blistering
DIN EN ISO 6270-2
Paints and varnishes - Determination of resistance to humidity - Part 2:
Procedure for exposing test specimens in condensation-water atmo‐
spheres
DIN ISO 4532
Vitreous and porcelain enamels - Determination of the resistance of enam‐
elled articles to impact - Pistol test
VDA 621-403
Anstrichtechnische Prüfungen; Prüfung der Wetterbeständigkeit im
Naturversuch (Freibewitterung)
Page 8
TL 211: 2009-10
