# TL211-2016_EN.pdf

Group standard
TL 211
Issue 2016-11
Class. No.:
50243
Descriptors:
paint, paintwork, primer coat, single-layer paint, multi-layer paint, exterior plastic part, exterior part,
bumper, wheel trim, rear spoiler, rear wing, tailgate, trunk lid, fender
Paintwork on Exterior Plastic Parts
Requirements
Previous issues
TL 211: 1974-11, 1983-10, 1989-07, 1992-08, 1992-09, 1995-03, 1995-10, 1998-06, 2003-02,
2003-03, 2009-09, 2009-10, 2014-07
Changes
The following changes have been made to TL 211: 2014-07:
–
Technical responsibility updated
–
Section 4.1 "General information": Requirements revised for plastic parts that are primed only
–
Table 2 revised
–
Further technical and editorial revisions
Scope
This Technical Supply Specification (TL) defines the requirements for primer coat, single-layer, and
multi-layer paint coatings as per the color combination table or special combination chart on plastic
parts (hang-on and add-on parts, e.g., bumpers, wheel trims, rear spoiler, rear wing, trunk lid/tail‐
gate, fenders).
Designation
Paintwork as per TL 211
1  
2  
Always use the latest version of this standard.
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies, the German version is alone authoritative and controlling.
Page 1 of 11
Technical responsibility
The Standards department
GQL-P/1
Angela Kern
Tel.: +49 5361 9 28507
GQL-P/1
Dr. Claudia Kühlmeyer-Freise
Tel.: +49 5361 9 26163
GQL-P
Dr. Jiping Liu
EKDD/2 Ute Hager-Süß
EKDD
Tel.: +49 5361 9 49035
Thomas Behrens
All rights reserved. No part of this document may be provided to third parties or reproduced without the prior consent of one of the Volkswagen Group’s Standards departments.
© Volkswagen Aktiengesellschaft
VWNORM-2015-07d


Page 2
TL 211: 2016-11
Requirements
Basic requirements
Approval of first supply and changes as per VW 01155
Avoidance of hazardous substances as per VW 91101.
In case pretreatment is necessary to activate the substrate, the pertinent method must be specified
(e.g., flame treatment, plasma treatment).
The coating/paintwork, as well as any refinishing paint, must adhere firmly to the substrate or to the
original paintwork.
All partial areas of components which are not subject to the requirements stated in this TL must be
identified as such in the drawing.
Master paint and hardener from the same manufacturer must be used for two-component composi‐
tions. Any deviations must be agreed upon with the Volkswagen Group department issuing the re‐
lease.
The supplier must provide the following information for all parts to be tested:
1.
Specification of the base material (manufacturer designation and VDA (German Association of
the Automotive Industry) designation)
2.
Color
3.
Paint structure (precise paint specifications, paint supplier), e.g.:
Primer coat: Two-component primer 01-79008, by XXX, 20 μm
Base coat: 831646, by XXX, 20 μm
Clear coat: Two-component clear coat GP72-0113, by XXX, 22 μm
4.
Paint shop
5.
Paint shop unit
6.
Paint shop location
7.
Painting date
Appearance and tactile properties
The parts must have a uniform appearance on their entire surface; they must conform to the draw‐
ing requirements and to the released sample with respect to gloss and color.
Pores, coarse cracks, and other flaws that adversely affect the specified appearance are not per‐
missible.
Color and gloss level must be documented in the initial sample inspection report or development
sample inspection report as per VW 50195.
Open-air weathering
All painted components in the Volkswagen Group are subjected to open-air weathering testing as
per VW 50185.
The supplier is obligated to remove any cause for complaints occurring during this test and to im‐
prove the paint system.
3  
3.1  
3.2  
3.3  


Page 3
TL 211: 2016-11
Painting process
The paint process must be agreed upon between paint shop and paint manufacturer. Both parties
confirm the initial sample inspection report, i.e., both are responsible for fulfilling the specified re‐
quirements.
Responsibilities are broken down as follows:
–
The paint manufacturer must provide information on fulfillment of TL requirements, make its
processing guidelines available, and provide support for technical application.
–
The paint shop provides information about the substrate (type of plastic material and commer‐
cial name), checks the requirements as early as possible (this also applies to pre-production
parts: at least for adhesion), confirms compliance with the processing guidelines of the paint
manufacturer and demands support regarding the applied paint method.
Conditioning
All samples delivered for testing must be pre-conditioned:
7 days at room temperature with a narrow air-temperature range (18 °C to 28 °C) or 48 h at 60 °C.
The tests are carried out after cooling down at room temperature for at least 1 h.
Requirements on structure and coating thickness
General information
Only one single re-paint job is permissible in the released process, adhering to the total paint coat
thickness of < 150 µm (in the case of piano lacquer, coating thickness as per release status or
drawing).
The following color combinations are permissible for re-painting:
1.
Each color on the same color
2.
Permissible base coats for all colors: Black, dark blue shades, dark gray shades (also metallic
or pearlescent paints)
Other color combinations must be agreed upon with the pertinent release departments of each
brand.
NOTE: If an increased total coating thickness is necessary for technical reasons, this must be
agreed upon by the parties involved. However, all other requirements stated in TL 211 must be ful‐
filled.
Exceptions: Parts that are only primed, < 50 μm1). Deviations require a pertinent drawing entry or a
separate release.
The requirements in TL 211 must also be complied with for re-painting of any sort. This must be
documented with an initial sample inspection report. The purchaser's part owner can require a sep‐
arate release for the re-painted parts.
3.4  
3.5  
4  
4.1  
1)
Parts already coated with top coat must not be used as after-sales service parts that are primed only. Plastic parts that are only
primed must fulfill only the requirements in table 2, consec. no. 2 to table 2, consec. no. 6 and table 2, consec. no. 8.9.


Page 4
TL 211: 2016-11
Structure
Base material
Plastic as per drawing
Primer coat/filler/primer surfacer 2)
If specified (by drawing, release, or color standard) or required for technical reasons (depending on
substrate)
Top coat or intermediate coat (solid color, metallic, pearlescent paint)
Base coat as per color standard or special combination chart, free of cadmium or cadmium com‐
pounds.
Clear coat (if required for decorative or technical reasons)
As per release sample, test as per infrared (IR) spectrum
Paint systems and paint coat thicknesses in µm
See table 1.
Table 1
No. System
Primer coat
Single-layer
paint
Double-layer
paint
Multi-layer
paint
Single-layer
piano lacquer
Double-layer
piano lacquer
1
Total paint
coat thickness
2 to 50
20 to 40
22 to 90
32 to 125
47 to 130
67 to 165
2
Primer
surfacer/
primer coat/
filler
2 to 50
–
2 to 50
2 to 50
2 to 50
2 to 50
3
Top coat
–
20 to 40
20 to 40
–
–
–
4
Intermediate coat
Solid
–
–
–
15 to 35
15 to 35
15 to 35
Metallic/
pearlescent
paint
–
–
–
10 to 35
10 to 35
10 to 35
5
Clear coat
–
–
20 to 40 a)
20 to 40
35 to 45
55 to 80
a)
This only applies to parts with base coat/clear coat paint system without primer coat, filler, and primer surfacer.
4.2  
4.2.1  
4.2.2  
4.2.3  
4.2.4  
4.3  
2)
Parts already coated with top coat must not be used as after-sales service parts that are primed only. Plastic parts that are only
primed must fulfill only the requirements in table 2, consec. no. 2 to table 2, consec. no. 6 and table 2, consec. no. 8.9.


Page 5
TL 211: 2016-11
Required properties
The requirements specified in table 2 must be ensured on the entire component.
Table 2
No.
Property
Requirement
1
Visual properties of single-layer and double-layer piano lacquer and special paint of high-gloss, brilliant appear‐
ance
1.1
Gloss as per DIN EN ISO 2813
Double-layer piano lacquer
≥ 90
Single-layer piano lacquer
≥ 90
Glossy solid color, pearlescent paints,
and metallic paints
≥ 85 (conditionally to -5)
Other paints
As per drawing
Add-on/hang-on parts painted in body color
for Audi
Surface Performance Specification LAH.893.018 (for Audi)
1.2
Color as per color standard, visual inspection as per Test Specification PV 3965
and colorimetric evaluation as per VW 50195
1.3
Evaluation of effect paints with respect to sparkle and grain differences as per VW 50194
This test no longer needs to be performed for new designs.
1.4
Structure; measurement system: wave-scan a), measurement as per manufacturer’s specifications
Double-layer piano lacquer
LW < 5; SW < 10
Single-layer piano lacquer
LW < 7; SW < 18
Glossy solid color, pearlescent paints,
and metallic paints
OK range
Conditionally-OK
range
Not-OK range
Horizontal surfaces
LW ≤ 5 ; SW ≤ 25
LW ≤ 8 ; SW ≤ 25
LW > 8 ; SW > 25
Vertical surfaces
LW ≤ 13 ; SW ≤ 30
LW ≤ 16 ; SW ≤ 35
LW > 16 ; SW > 35
Add-on/hang-on parts painted in body color
for Audi
Surface Performance Specification LAH.893.018 (for Audi)
2
Adhesion
2.1
Cross-cut test
as per DIN EN ISO 2409 b)
with removal of adhesive tape c)
Cross-cut test characteristic value ≤ 1
2.2
Pressure washer test
as per PV 1503
Procedure following consultation with the
purchaser's appropriate department
Delamination of the paint coat is not permissible.
3
Condensed water test in condensation at‐
mosphere with constant humidity (CH)
as per DIN EN ISO 6270-2
Test duration: 240 h
1. Evaluation after 30 min as per DIN EN ISO 4628-2, degree of blis‐
tering 2 (S2) still permissible.
2. Evaluation after 24 h as per DIN EN ISO 4628-2, degree of blis‐
tering 0 (S0). If blistering occurred earlier, testing of paint adhesion
must be performed in that very area. The requirements as per ta‐
ble 2, consec. no. 2 must still be met.
3. Visible changes in the paint surface are not permissible.
5  


Page 6
TL 211: 2016-11
No.
Property
Requirement
4
Environmental cycle test
as per PV 1200, 20 cycles
Visible changes in the paint surface are not permissible.
5
Behavior in temperature cycle test
5.1
Heat aging
Aging in recirculated air, 240 h at
(90 ±2) °C, followed by at least 30 min of
acclimatization at room temperature.
Visible changes in the paint surface are not permissible.
5.1.1
Low-temperature aging
After heat aging, the same specimens must
be exposed to low-temperature aging. Test
duration: 24 h, test temperature:
(-40 ±2) °C, followed by at least 30 min of
acclimatization at room temperature.
5.2
Low-temperature behavior, aging duration: 24 h
5.2.1
Impact test
based on DIN ISO 4532 c)
(-40 ±3) °C
Chipping and cracks in the paint coat are not permissible.
6
Stone-chip test
as per DIN EN ISO 20567-1, method B c)
Characteristic value ≤ 2.0
7
Tunnel wash resistance
Scratch resistance as per PV 3.3.3
VE ≥ 1
VR ≥ 1 after reflow effect d)
8
Resistance to chemicals
The scope may be restricted to agents that are pertinent for the application in agreement with the purchaser's ap‐
propriate department. The agreement must be documented in the drawing or Performance Specification.


Page 7
TL 211: 2016-11
No.
Property
Requirement
8.1
FAM test fuel
as per DIN 51604-2,
as per DIN EN ISO 2812-4, method A,
10 min at room temperature
Evaluation after
a) 1 h at room temperature;
if changes occur, carry out step b)
b) Reflow aging for 2 h at 60 °C;
No visible changes permissible after step b), but slight changes not
relevant to the customer may be permissible in consultation with the
appropriate department
8.2
E10 gasoline
as per DIN EN 228 (blend of premium un‐
leaded gasoline as per DIN EN 228 with
10 volume percent reagent-grade ethanol)
and DIN EN ISO 2812-4, method A,
10 min at room temperature
8.3
B7 diesel fuel
as per TL 788-B and DIN EN ISO 2812-4,
method A,
10 min at room temperature
8.4
Isopropanol
as per DIN EN ISO 2812-4,
method A,10 min at room temperature
8.5
5% sodium hydroxide solution (mass per‐
centage)
as per DIN EN ISO 2812-4, method A, 1 h
at room temperature
8.6
10% sulfuric acid solution (mass percent‐
age)
as per DIN EN ISO 2812-4, method A, 1 h
at room temperature
8.7
10% hydrochloric acid solution (mass per‐
centage)
as per DIN EN ISO 2812-4, method A, 1 h
at room temperature
8.8
Water (quality grade 3 as per
DIN ISO 3696)
as per DIN EN ISO 2812-4, method A, 1 h
at 80 °C
8.9
Commercially available nitrocellulose thin‐
ner (applies only to primed after-sales serv‐
ice parts)
as per DIN EN ISO 2812-4, method A,
10 min at room temperature
8.10
Bird droppings substitute
as per DIN EN ISO 2812-4, appendix A.4.5,
method A, 30 min at 45 °C
8.11
Tree resin e)
as per DIN EN ISO 2812-4,
appendix A.4.1, method A, 30 min at 45 °C


Page 8
TL 211: 2016-11
No.
Property
Requirement
8.12
Resistance to
transport protection film f); the transport pro‐
tection film intended for the application must
be applied to the paintwork with air bubbles
remaining beneath the film and then aged
for 8 cycles as per PV 1200.
Marks in the transition to the non-taped area and under the film are
not permissible. Reversible swellings (after 24 h at room tempera‐
ture) are permissible. There must be no adhesive residues after the
transport protection film is removed.
9
Lightfastness and weather resistance (short-term tests)
9.1
Weathering in humid/hot climate
as per PV 3930 (corresponding to Florida),
test duration: 1 annual cycle
For component surfaces painted in contrasting colors and not in
body color, that have an angle of ≥ 60° to the horizontal in the as-
installed position:
Visible changes in color and gloss are not permissible g). The re‐
quirements as per table 2, consec. no. 2.1 must still be met.
For Audi:
Test duration: 2 annual cycles,
regardless of the as-installed position
9.2
Weathering in dry/hot climate
as per PV 3929 (corresponding to Kalahari
and Arizona),
test duration: 1 annual cycle
For Audi:
Test duration: 2 annual cycles,
regardless of the as-installed position
9.3
Weathering in humid/hot climate
as per PV 3930 (corresponding to Florida),
test duration: 2-year cycle
For component surfaces that are visible from a bird's-eye view and
have an angle of < 60° to the horizontal in the as-installed position
and/or are painted in the body color:
Visible changes in color and gloss are not permissible g). The re‐
quirements as per table 2, consec. no. 2.1 must still be met.
9.4
Weathering in dry/hot climate
as per PV 3929 (corresponding to Kalahari
and Arizona),
test duration: 2 annual cycles


Page 9
TL 211: 2016-11
No.
Property
Requirement
9.5
Weathering in humid/hot climate
as per PV 3930 (corresponding to Florida),
test duration: 3 annual cycles
Only for body components (e.g., trunk lid/tailgate, fender)
Visible changes in color and gloss are not permissible g). The re‐
quirements as per table 2, consec. no. 2.1 must still be met.
9.6
Weathering in dry/hot climate
as per PV 3929 (corresponding to Kalahari
and Arizona),
test duration: 3 annual cycles
10
Resistance of the clear coat to UV radiation
as per PV 1502 (on the specified plastic),
test duration: 1 000 h
Formation of cracks in the clear coat is not permissible.
11
Weather resistance in nature
(open-air weathering)
(Only for release testing)
11.1
Weathering in humid/hot climate (Florida,
USA)
as per DIN EN ISO 2810 Am,
test duration: 24 months
Visible changes in color and other changes to the paintwork such as
cracks, chalking, or blistering are not permissible.
11.2
Weathering in dry/hot climate (Kalahari, Ari‐
zona)
as per DIN EN ISO 2810 BWh,
test duration: 24 months
Visible changes in color and other changes to the paintwork such as
cracks, chalking, or blistering are not permissible.
a)
wave-scan is the manufacturer's product designation. It is produced by BYK-Gardner GmbH.
This information is only intended for informational purposes for the users of this in-house standard. It does not signify an endorse‐
ment of the mentioned product by the Volkswagen Group. Equivalent products may be used if it can be verified that they lead to the
same results.
b)
Greater care than with metal substrates must be taken to ensure that the cuts made in the cross-cut test do enter the substrate, but
do not go too deep. The adhesive tape (Tesaband 4657 3)) must be firmly pressed onto the surface before removing it.
c)
The adhesive tape (Tesaband 4657 3)) must be firmly pressed onto the surface before removing it; however, with a preset testing
force of 90 N and against a rigid support.
d)
Reference clear coat ALD096050 3) Reference panels available from PMP-L/C2, Ms. Gallenkemper.
e)
50% Balsamharz chips 3) and 50% Pine-Oil 55-60 3)
f)
The coating must be tested using the released transport protection materials used in production (e.g., Bodygard 50530 3)) or the
transport protection used by the supplier.
g)
All coatings must be cleaned before evaluation. Black matte paint coats must only be cleaned with clear water with a commercially
available wetting agent (e.g., Pril 3)) added; solid color and metallic paints using polish P10 3) (Volkswagen material no. A 292777).
Supplier requirements: Monitoring conformity of production
To ensure the tested and released quality of the parts in ongoing production, the supplier must per‐
form and document the tests as per table 3 on the painted parts:
6  
3)
Tesaband 4657 is the manufacturer's product designation. It is produced by tesa SE.
ALD096050 is the manufacturer's product designation. It is produced by BASF SE.
Chips is the manufacturer's product designation. It is produced by Willers Engel & Co GmbH & Co.
Pine-Oil 55-60 is the manufacturer's product designation. It is produced by Overlack AG.
Bodygard 50530 is the manufacturer's product designation. It is produced by tesa SE.
Pril is the manufacturer's product designation. It is produced by Henkel AG & Co. KGaA.
P10 is the manufacturer's product designation. It is produced by menzerna polishing compounds GmbH & Co. KG.
This information is only intended for informational purposes for the users of this in-house standard. It does not signify an endorse‐
ment of the mentioned product by the Volkswagen Group. Equivalent products may be used if it can be verified that they lead to the
same results.


Page 10
TL 211: 2016-11
Table 3
 
Test
For each production
shift, per color
For each paint batch,
directly after a batch
change
Table 2, consec. no. 1.2
Color as per color standard
×
×
Table 2, consec. no. 1.4
Structure
×
×
Table 2, consec. no. 2
Coating adhesion
 
×
Table 2, consec. no. 3
Condensed water test
 
×
Table 2, consec. no. 6
Stone impact test
 
×
Deviations from the test frequency can be agreed upon in writing with the purchaser's appropriate
part owner.
Applicable documents
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary to its application.
Some of the cited documents are translations from the German original. The translations of Ger‐
man terms in such documents may differ from those used in this standard, resulting in terminologi‐
cal inconsistency.
Standards whose titles are given in German may be available only in German. Editions in other
languages may be available from the institution issuing the standard.
LAH.893.018 (for Audi)
Surface Requirements for Painted Exterior Parts
PV 1200
Vehicle Parts; Testing of Resistance to Environmental Cycle Test
(+80/-40) °C
PV 1502
Clear Coat for Dual-Layer Metallic Paint Coatings; Testing for Resist‐
ance to Cracking
PV 1503
Paint Coating of Metallic and Non-Metallic Materials; Pressure Washer
Test
PV 3.3.3
Paints and Varnishes; Scratch Resistance Testing of Clear Coats
PV 3929
Non-Metallic Materials; Weathering in Dry, Hot Climate
PV 3930
Non-Metallic Materials; Weathering in Moist, Hot Climate
PV 3965
Decorative Surfaces on and within the Vehicle; Visual Color Matching
according to DIN EN ISO 3668
TL 788
Diesel Fuel; Fuel Requirements
VW 01155
Vehicle Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 50185
Vehicle Parts; Resistance to Open-Air Weathering
VW 50194
Definition of Tolerances and Evaluation of the Differences in the Spar‐
kling and Graininess of Effect Paints
VW 50195
Colorimetric Evaluation of Automobile Paint Coatings
VW 91101
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operat‐
ing Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
7  
