# TL222.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 22 3 
June 2004 
Corrosion Protection Coatings 
for Brake Lines 
Requirements for Surface Protection 
TL 
222 
Konzernnorm 
4 Types: B, D, E, F 
 
Descriptors: 
brake line, corrosion protection, surface protection 
 
Page   
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32 
Große/Laudien Tel: -28506/-25846 
Dr. Eisenberg 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 222, 1996-04: 
 
Type D - Al/PA 11 renamed as Type D 
 
Type D - Zn/PA 12 renamed as Type E 
 
Type F - Al/PA 12 added 
 
Referenced standards updated 
 
Standard restructured 
Previous issues 
1979-12; 1987-05; 1990-08; 1996-04 
1 
Scope 
This TL standard describes requirements for the four different types of surface protection for lines 
in the hydraulic brake system: 
TL 222, type B 
Zinc/passivation/polyvinyl fluoride (PVF) coating, 
TL 222, type D 
Aluminum/passivation/polyamide (PA11) coating, 
TL 222, type E 
Zinc/passivation/polyamide (PA12) coating, 
TL 222, type F 
Aluminum/passivation/polyamide (PA12) coating. 
2 
Designation 
Sample drawing entry for a zinc/passivation/polyvinyl fluoride coating: 
Surface protection according to TL 222-B 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
Corrosion protection coatings according to this TL standard shall completely fulfill the applicable 
requirements specified in national regulations if the coated lines are intended for export to countries 
in which fulfilling these regulations is legally required, for example 571.105, 571.106 and 571.116 
(USA) and CMVSS 105, 106, 116 (Canada). 
20 lines are required for complete testing. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 222: 2004-06 
 
The protective coatings shall be free from pores, coarse cracks, damage or other flaws impairing 
the corrosion protection of the lines. Damage, folds and cracks in the plastic coating, particularly 
within the bend radii, are not permissible. 
3.2 
Structure and minimum coating thickness 
Minimum coating thickness according to DIN EN ISO 2064. Measurement according to 
DIN EN ISO 1463, DIN EN ISO 2178 or DIN EN ISO 2808. To avoid erroneous readings, it is 
necessary to calibrate (zero and end value) the measuring device on brake lines from which the 
coating system has been removed without leaving a residue, but where the nickel layer or copper 
layer and zinc/copper phase is still intact. 
See Table 1 for requirements. 
Table 1 – Structure and minimum coating thickness 
Requirement 
No. Coating 
Type B 
Type D 
Type E 
Type F 
1 
Surface of material 
as manufactured 
(basic line) 
CuCu or CuFe 
CuNi or CuFe 
CuCu or CuFe 
CuNi or CuFe 
2 
Base coat 
Electroplated zinc 
coating, min. 25 µm 
Aluminum hot dip 
coating, min. 80 µm 
Electroplated zinc 
coating, min. 25 µm 
Aluminum hot dip 
coating, min. 100 µm 
3 
Bonding agent 
Passivation layer/primer 
4 
Top coat 
Olive-colored coating 
made of polyvinyl fluoride 
(PVF) min. 15 µm 
IR spectrum  
according to sample* 
Black coating made 
of polyamide (PA11) 
min. 60 µm 
 IR spectrum according 
to sample* 
Black coating made of 
polyamide (PA12) min. 
120 µm  
IR spectrum according to 
sample* 
Black coating made 
of polyamide (PA12) 
min. 100 µm 
IR spectrum 
according to sample* 
* The IR samples shall be presented by the supplier during the first-sample test 
3.3 
Corrosion resistance 
See Table 2 for requirements. 
Table 2 – Corrosion resistance 
Requirement 
No. Test 
Type B 
Type D 
Type E 
Type F 
1 
Salt spray fog according to DIN 50021-SS and Section 4.1 
1.1 
Test duration 144 h 
with scribing line acc. 
to Section 4.2  
Adhesion loss  
D  2 mm 
- 
1.2 
Test duration 500 h 
No base metal 
corrosion, 
no detachment of 
the coating, no folds 
and no blisters with 
Ø > 1 mm permissible; 
zinc corrosion and/or 
blisters in the plastic 
coating  1% 
- 
1.3 
Test duration 500 h 
with scribing line acc. 
to Section 4.2  
- 
Adhesion loss D  1 mm, but at no point > 3 mm 
1.4 
Test duration 500 h 
following stone impact 
test acc. to  
Section 4.3 
- 
No base metal corrosion 
1.5 
Test duration 1,000 h 
- 
No aluminum or zinc corrosion, no base metal corrosion and no detachment 
of the PA layer 


Page 3 
TL 222: 2004-06 
 
Requirement 
No. Test 
Type B 
Type D 
Type E 
Type F 
2 
Moisture-condensate 
constant climate acc. 
to DIN 50017-KK, 
test duration 240 h 
with scribing line 
acc. to Section 4.2 
- 
Adhesion loss D  1 mm, but at no point > 3 mm 
 
3.4 
Resistance to chemicals 
Testing according to VDA 621-412, test A in the following media: 
 
Premium unleaded gasoline according to DIN EN 228, aging for 1 h at (23 ± 2) °C, 
 
Diesel fuel according to DIN EN 590, aging for 1 h at (23 ± 2) °C, 
 
Factory-fill engine oil according to TL 521 07, aging for 1 h at (23 ± 2) °C, 
 
Hydraulic fluid according to TL 521 46, aging for 1 h at (23 ± 2) °C, 
 
Brake fluid according to TL 766, aging for 24 h at (23 ± 2) °C. 
Blistering or softening of the plastic coating is not permissible. There shall be no cracking or 
flake-like detachment of the plastic coating after 24 h flash-off and subsequent winding around 
a mandrel (360°, Ø 16 mm). 
4 
Notes on testing 
4.1 
Salt spray fog test 
Testing in bent condition ready for installation or after winding once (360°, pitch approx. 120 mm) 
around a mandrel (plastic or wood, Ø 18 mm to 20 mm) using a standard tool (bending device). 
The specimens are aged suspended in the test chamber. 
4.2 
Scribing line 
Scribing line according to DIN EN ISO 7253, Section 8.5. Straight line sections approx. 300 mm in 
length shall preferably be used for the test. The scribing line shall be approx. 75 mm in length and 
applied parallel to the longitudinal axis of the specimens. The specimens shall be placed in the test 
chamber at an angle of around 60° to 75° from the horizontal with the scribing line facing upwards. 
The scribing line shall be applied to the external radius if there are no straight line sections of 
sufficient length available or the bend area is to be checked. The evaluation shall be performed 
according to DIN EN ISO 4628-8 in moist condition. 
4.3 
Stone impact test 
Testing according to DIN 55996-1, method C, but without salt spray test between the two impact 
stress phases. 


Page 4 
TL 222: 2004-06 
 
5 
Referenced standards*) 
TL 766 
Brake Fluid; Material Requirements 
TL 521 07 
SAE 15W-40 Factory Fill Engine Oil; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 521 46 
Central Hydraulic System Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
VDA 621-412 
Anstrichtechnische Prüfungen; Chemikalienbeständigkeit von Kraftfahrzeug-
Lackierungen (Tests for Coating Methods; Resistance to Chemicals of Motor 
Vehicle Paints – only available in German) 
DIN 50017 
Atmospheres and Their Technical Application; Condensation Water Test 
Atmospheres 
DIN 50021 
Spray Tests with Different Sodium Chloride Solutions 
DIN 55996-1 
Paints and Varnishes – Stone Chip Resistance Test for Coatings – Part 1: 
Multi Impact Test 
DIN EN 228 
Automotive Fuels – Unleaded Petrol – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 590 
Automotive Fuels – Diesel – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN ISO 1463 
Metallic and Oxide Coatings – Measurement of Coating Thickness – 
Microscopical Method 
DIN EN ISO 2064 
Metallic and Other Non-Organic Coatings – Definitions and Conventions 
Concerning the Measurement of Thickness 
DIN EN ISO 2178 
Non-Magnetic Coatings on Magnetic Substrates – Measurement of Coating 
Thickness – Magnetic Method 
DIN EN ISO 2808 
Paints and Varnishes – Determination of Film Thickness 
DIN EN ISO 4628-8 Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings; Designation 
of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform Changes in 
Appearance – Part 8: Evaluation of Corrosion around a Scribe 
DIN EN ISO 7253 
Paints and Varnishes – Determination of Resistance to Neutral Salt 
Spray (Fog) 
                                                
*) 
In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
