# TL227.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 24 1 
April 2004 
Paint Coating of 
Zinc-Coated Metal Surfaces 
Requirements for Surface Protection 
TL 
227 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
corrosion protection, surface protection, paint, cathodic dip paint, KTL, zinc 
 
Page 1 of 4 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32 
Koeppen 
Tel: -25803 
Laudien 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 227, 1996-07: 
─ 
Standard restructured 
─ 
Referenced standards updated 
─ 
Yellow chromating removed and replaced with Cr(VI)-free passivation treatments 
Previous issues 
1980-11; 1986-12; 1992-07; 1995-12; 1996-07 
1 
Scope 
This TL standard defines the surface protection requirements for organic coatings (single-layer 
liquid paint or cathodic dip paint) on zinc-coated parts with the protection types 
Ofl-x632 for zinc coating of individual parts and 
Ofl-x633 for parts made of zinc-coated semifinished products. 
2 
Designation 
See Volkswagen standard VW 137 50, Section 2. 
If a cathodic dip paint is required, “KTL” (from German: kathodische Elektrotauchlackierung) must 
be added to the designation. 
Example: 
Ofl-x632 KTL 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
Parts that are not painted immediately after zinc coating (e.g., in the case of shipping zinc-coated 
parts to the painting plant) shall not be phosphated or sealed and must correspond to protection 
type Ofl-c310, Ofl-c340, Ofl-c330 or Ofl-c630 according to TL 217. Any required transport or 
storage protection of zinc-coated parts, such as oiling, shall be agreed upon with the painting plant. 
If painting is carried out at a plant in the VW Group, the transport or storage protection shall 
correspond to Quality Specification QP A 001. 
Eight parts are required for complete testing. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 227: 2004-04 
 
3.2 
Conditioning 
If air-drying coating systems are used and/or the paint system is not burned in at elevated 
temperatures (> 60 °C), the components shall be conditioned for 24 hours at 60 °C before the test 
and then cooled to room temperature (18 to 28) °C. 
3.3 
Base material 
According to drawing. 
3.4 
Zinc coating 
For Ofl-x632 = According to DIN EN 10152 or 
 
Ofl-c310, in exceptional cases Ofl-c340 according to TL 217 1). 
For Ofl-x633 = According to DIN EN 10142, weight according to drawing or 
 
Ofl-c330 or Ofl-c630 according to TL 217. 
3.5 
Pretreatment 
For Ofl-x633 = zinc phosphated. 
For Ofl-x632 = zinc phosphated, in exceptional cases thin-layer passivated, free of Cr(VI). 
3.6 
Painting 
Single-layer liquid paint, alternatively cathodic dip paint. A paint structure based on alkyd resin 
is not permissible. 
3.7 
Color 
Black or according to drawing (according to color chart). 
3.8 
Paint coat thickness 
(15 to 50) µm for single-layer liquid paints, (15 to 35) µm for cathodic dip paints, or paint coat 
thickness deviating from this according to drawing. 
3.9 
Adhesion 
Crosscut test according to DIN EN ISO 2409. Requirement: < characteristic value 1. 
3.10 
Resistance to stone impact 
Test according to DIN 55996-1, Method B. If it is not possible to test the components, e.g. because 
of their geometry, a reference test is to be carried out on painted metal sheets. 
Requirement: max. characteristic value 2 (visual evaluation). 
 
____________ 
1) 
An electrolyte with the lowest possible amount of brighteners must be used for electroplating to ensure optimal adhesion. 


Page 3 
TL 227: 2004-04 
 
3.11 
Corrosion resistance 
3.11.1 
Corrosion cycle test 
Test according Test Specification PV 1210 with scribe mark according to DIN EN ISO 7253, 
Section 8.5, evaluation according to DIN EN ISO 4628-8. 
Requirements: 
─ 
after 5 cycles test duration: no base metal corrosion on cut edges and surface, 
─ 
after 15 cycles test duration: no blistering, no zinc corrosion; adhesion loss D on scribe mark 
and cut edges < 2.5 mm, 
─ 
after 30 cycles test duration: no base metal corrosion on the component surface outside the 
scribe mark (base metal corrosion on cut edges up to an adjacent zone of max. 2.5 mm 
permissible); crosscut test according to DIN EN ISO 2409: < characteristic value 1. 
3.11.2 
Resistance to moisture condensate constant climate 
Test according to DIN 50017-KK, test duration 240 h; the specimens are then acclimatized for 
30 minutes at (18 to 28) °C. 
Requirements: 
─ 
no 
blistering, 
no 
zinc 
corrosion; 
crosscut 
test 
according 
to 
DIN EN ISO 2409:  
< characteristic value 1. 
3.12 
Resistance to chemicals 
Test according to VDA 621-412, A; evaluation according to DIN EN ISO 4628-1, Table 3. For test 
media and requirements, see Table 1. 
Table 1  
No. 
Test medium 
Requirement 
 
 
Single-layer liquid paint 
Cathodic dip paint 
1 
For all parts 
1.1 
Premium unleaded gasoline acc. to DIN EN 228 
1.2 
Diesel fuel acc. to DIN EN 590 
1.3 
Fatty acid methyl ester acc. to DIN EN 14214 
2 
For exterior parts only  
Released sealant and sealant remover 
max. characteristic value 2, 
but max. characteristic value 
1 after 5 h resting period 
max. characteristic value 1 
3 
For engine compartment parts only 
3.1 
Factory-fill engine oil acc. to TL 521 07 
3.2 
Automatic transmission fluid acc. to TL 521 62 
3.3 
Central hydraulic system fluid acc. to TL 521 46 
max. characteristic value 1 
3.4 
Brake fluid acc. to TL 766 
3.5 
Coolant additive acc. to TL 774 
max. characteristic value 2, 
but max. characteristic value 
1 after 5 h resting period 
 
 


Page 4 
TL 227: 2004-04 
 
4 
Referenced standards2) 
PV 1210 
Body and Add-On Parts; Corrosion Test 
QP A 001 
Prelubes, Slushing Oils (general), Blank Washing Oils, Drawing Oils and 
Drawing Agents; Quality Requirements 
TL 217 
Zinc Coatings; Requirements for Surface Protection  
TL 766 
Brake Fluid; Material Requirements 
TL 774 
Ethylene Glycol-Based Coolant Additive; Material Requirements 
TL 521 07 
SAE 15W-40 Factory Fill Engine Oil; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 521 46 
Central Hydraulic System Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 521 62 
Factory-Fill-for-Life Automatic Transmission Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 137 50 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Degrees of Protection, Codes, 
Requirements 
VW 911 01 
Vehicle Environmental Standard; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids; 
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
VDA 621-412 
Tests for Coating Methods; Resistance to Chemicals of Motor Vehicle Paints 
(only available in German) 
DIN 50017 
Atmospheres and their Technical Application; Condensation Water Test 
Atmospheres 
DIN 55996-1 
Paints and Varnishes; Stone Chip Resistance Test for Coatings; Part 1: Multi 
Impact Test 
DIN EN 228 
Automotive Fuels; Unleaded Petrol; Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 590 
Automotive Fuels; Diesel Fuel; Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 10142 
Continuously Hot-Dip Zinc Coated Low Carbon Steel Strip and Sheet for 
Cold Forming – Technical Delivery Conditions 
DIN EN 10152 
Electrolytically Zinc Coated Cold Rolled Steel Flat Products – Technical 
Delivery Conditions 
DIN EN 14214 
Automotive Fuels; Fatty Acid Methyl Esters (FAME) for Diesel Engines; 
Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN ISO 2409 
Paints and Varnishes; Cross-Cut Test 
DIN EN ISO 4628-1 Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings – Designation 
of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform Changes in 
Appearance – Part 1: General Introduction and Designation System 
DIN EN ISO 4628-8 Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings – Designation 
of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform Changes in 
Appearance – Part 8: Evaluation of Corrosion Around a Scribe 
DIN EN ISO 7253 
Paints and Varnishes; Determination of Resistance to Neutral Salt Spray 
(Fog)  
                                                
2) In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
 
