# TL235.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 22 1
August 2002
Manganese Phosphated Surfaces
Requirements
TL
235
Konzernnorm
Descriptors:
manganese phosphated, phosphated, transmission part, hureaulite
Page 1 of 3
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
K-QS-32
Dr. Rodriguez
Tel:-28497
Klingemann
Tel:-28499
Wiesner
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064
Sobanski
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung einer Normenabteilung des Volkswagen Konzerns nicht gestattet.
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung.
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
VOLKSWAGEN AG
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 12.00
Preface
TL 235 became invalid with the 1985-04 issue The TL was reissued in slightly revised form after
the Group reported a need for this document.
Previous issues
1985-04.
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to TL 235 1985-04:
-  
Standard restructured
-  
Referenced standards updated
-  
Requirements regarding phosphated steel balls removed
1 
Scope
This standard defines the requirements for manganese phosphated surfaces of transmission parts.
2 
Designation
Manganese phosphated according to TL 235
3 
Requirements
3.1 
General requirements
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55.
Avoidance of hazardous substances acc. to VW 911 01.
3.2 
Structure
The manganese phosphate layer, comprising crystalline hureaulite, must cover the metal surface
evenly and entirely. Exsiccation of salts (formation of white flecks) is not permitted.
3.3 
Color
Dark gray to black. Minor color variations are permitted.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2
TL 235: 2002-08
3.4 
Layer thickness
Test using the magnetic method according to DIN EN ISO 2178 or using the light-optical micro-
scope.
Requirement: 2 to 8 µm.
3.5 
Dimensions of the crystals
The examination is conducted using the scanning electron microscope at a cutout enlargement of
600:1. The characteristic value is specified by allocating it to one of the pictures, 1 to 6.
Requirements: Length: 2 to 12 µm, thickness: 1 to 6 µm, characteristic value: 1 to 3.
Figure 1 – Characteristic value 1, OK
Figure 2 – Characteristic value 2, OK
Figure 3 – Characteristic value 3, OK
Figure 4 – Characteristic value 4, not OK
Figure 5 – Characteristic value 5, not OK
Figure 6 – Characteristic value 6, not OK


Page 3
TL 235: 2002-08
3.6 
Pickling marks
The study is conducted on an unetched transverse microsection (90° to the tooth flanks) at 200x
and 500x enlargement on 4 tooth flanks (thrust and traction flanks) for each component.
Requirements:
Individual pickling marks are permitted (see figures 7 and 8). Pickling marks that are close to one
another, have a depth of > 10µm and together produce a wavy surface finish and whose number
exceeds 5 per mm, are not permitted (see figures 9 and 10).
The maximum pickling mark depth must not exceed 30 µm.
Figure 7 - Enlargement = 200 : 1, OK
Figure 8 - Enlargement = 500 : 1, OK
Figure 9 - Enlargement = 200 : 1, not OK
Figure 10 - Enlargement = 500 : 1, not OK
3.7 
Roughness
The process-determined roughness of the finished part is Rz ≤ 15 µm.
4 
Referenced standards
DIN EN ISO 2178
Non-Magnetic Coatings on Magnetic Substrates; Measurement of Coating
Thickness; Magnetic Method
