# TL236.pdf

Nickel-Phosphorous Coatings, Autocatalytically Deposited
Surface Protection Requirements
3 types: A, B, C
Previous issues
TL 236: 1989-08, 1999-12, 2001-08, 2004-09
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to TL 236: 2004-09:
–
Referenced documents updated
Scope
This TL standard defines the requirements for nickel coatings deposited without external current, i.e.,
autocatalytically, which ensure corrosion and/or wear protection for ferrous materials (up to 3%
chromium content). For alternative base materials the requirements for the deposition of the coatings
must be ensured by appropriate preconditionings, e.g. by means of intermediate layers.
Three different types with corresponding levels of stress are available:
Type A: nickel coating for mild corrosion and/or mild wear stress
Type B: nickel coating for moderate corrosion and/or moderate wear stress
Type C: nickel dispersion coating for special wear stresses
NOTE 1 Viscous clutch discs have a wear- and corrosion-resistant nickel-phosphorous coating which
is deposited without external current. This coating is 4 to 7 µm thick, has a phosphorous content of
7 to 11% and is heat-treated for 2 hours at 350 ± 30 °C in the loaded package in a protective gas
atmosphere.
1  
Group Standard
TL 236
Issue 2009-03
Class. No.:
50221
Descriptors:
Nickel coating, electroplating, corrosion protection, wear protection
Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
Numerical notation acc. to ISO practice.
Page 1 of 6
Technical responsibility
Standards Department
GQL-LM/2
Dr. Anja Hasse
Tel.: +49-5361-9-42106
GQL-LM/2
Günther Laudien
GQL-L
Dr. Stephan Eisenberg
EKTC/4 Jürgen Wiesner
EKTC
Tel.: +49-5361-9-29064
Manfred Terlinden
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform www.vwgroupsupply.com.
© Volkswagen Aktiengesellschaft
VWNORM-2008-12d
QUELLE: NOLIS


NOTE 2 For explanatory notes on autocatalytically deposited nickel coatings, see informative
Appendix A.
Description
Ni-P coating according to TL 236
Requirements
General requirements
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 01155.
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 91101.
A total of 10 finished parts are required for complete testing.
Unless certain sections of a part that are marked in the drawing are excluded from the surface coating,
the entire surface of the parts, except for the contact points, must comply with the required surface
protection type.
The protective coatings must not exhibit any pores, cracks, damage, or other flaws impairing the
surface characteristics regarding wear and corrosion resistance.
The surface of the nickel-plated components should have a uniform optical appearance. The structure
and the adhesion of the coatings can be changed by a thermal post-treatment.
An additional oiling of the nickel-plated parts may be specified in the drawing.
Base material
The type and composition of the base material have a significant effect on the quality of the coating.
The purchaser must ensure that the surface finish is suitable for coating.
Coating composition and structure
Coating thickness
The coating thickness must be determined according to DIN EN ISO 3497, DIN EN ISO 2360,
DIN EN ISO 2178, or DIN EN ISO 1463. In case of conflict, the specifications according to
DIN EN ISO 1463 apply. For special areas relevant to the function, the measuring point must be
specified in the drawing.
However, the reference values listed in Table 1 can be used as a guideline.
Table 1
Type
Coating thickness (in µm)
A
2 to < 10
B
10 to < 25
C
According to the specific
requirements (see drawing)
2  
3  
3.1  
3.2  
3.3  
3.3.1  
Page 2
TL 236: 2009-03


Phosphorous content
If specific requirements regarding the phosphorous content are necessary for the component, these
must be specified in the drawing.
Heat treatment
If a subsequent heat treatment of the coating is necessary for the component, this must be specified
in the drawing by indicating temperature and duration.
Corrosion resistance
Testing in CH test atmosphere according to DIN EN ISO 6270-2.
Type A: 120 h < 1% base metal corrosion on substantial surface area.
Testing with test method NSS according to DIN EN ISO 9227.
Type B: 192 h < 1% base metal corrosion on substantial surface area.
Type C: no requirement.
Wear resistance/coating hardness
Test: Vickers microhardness according to DIN EN ISO 4516 on transverse microsections or with
sufficiently thick coatings on the specimen surface.
Requirement: 400-600 HV.
Component-specific deviations that may be particularly necessary for the types B and C must be
specified in the drawing.
Adhesion
The adhesion of the coatings is tested based on DIN EN ISO 2819 and by a bending, impact or heat
shock test, depending on the component.
Requirement: no adhesion loss in the shape of bubbles, blisters or detachment of the layer.
Referenced documents
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary for application.
In this Section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
Standards with the titles given in German are either only available in German or may be procured in
other languages from the institution issuing the standard.
VW 01155
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 91101
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
DIN EN ISO 1463
Metallic and oxide coatings - Measurement of coating thickness - Micro‐
scopical method
DIN EN ISO 2178
Non-magnetic coatings on magnetic substrates - Measurement of coating
thickness - Magnetic method
3.3.2  
3.3.3  
3.4  
3.5  
3.6  
4  
Page 3
TL 236: 2009-03


DIN EN ISO 2360
Non-conductive coatings on non-magnetic electrically conductive basis
materials - Measurement of coating thickness - Amplitude-sensitive eddy
current method
DIN EN ISO 2819
Metallic coatings on metallic substrates - Electrodeposited and chemically
deposited coatings - Review of methods available for testing adhesion
DIN EN ISO 3497
Metallic coatings - Measurement of coating thickness - X-ray spectrometric
methods
DIN EN ISO 4516
Metallic and other inorganic coatings - Vickers and Knoop microhardness
tests
DIN EN ISO 6270-2
Paints and varnishes - Determination of resistance to humidity - Part 2:
Procedure for exposing test specimens in condensation-water atmo‐
spheres
DIN EN ISO 9227
Corrosion tests in artificial atmospheres - Salt spray tests
Page 4
TL 236: 2009-03


Explanatory notes
Fundamental notes
One of the most significant characteristics of nickel coatings deposited without external current are
the uniform coating structure or small coating thickness tolerances at all points of a component with
geometrically complicated shapes.
To provide a uniform coating, the parts must be evenly immersed in the autocatalytic bath so that an
unhindered electrolytic exchange on the surface can be guaranteed.
The coatings are primarily used as wear and/or corrosion protection coatings for specific applications.
The corrosion resistance or functional property of an autocatalytically deposited nickel-phosphorous
coating is decisive for its quality, rather than its coating thickness.
Phosphorous content
Nickel coatings deposited without external current are X-ray-amorphous after the deposit. The coating
is a micro-crystalline over-satuated phosphorous solution in the nickel.
Three groups of nickel-phosphorous coatings are distinguished:
1 to 4 weight percent P low-alloy nickel coatings,
4 to 9 weight percent P medium-alloy nickel coatings,
> 9 weight percent P
high-alloy nickel coatings.
Heat treatment
The minimum hardness of autocatalytically deposited nickel-phosphorous coatings is 450 HV 0,1.
Depending on the phosphor content and the conditions of the heat treatment, the hardness of the
deposits can be increased to values of up to 1 100 HV 0,1.
Discolorations of the chemical nickel coating are prevented by annealing in a protective gas or inert
atmosphere.
For high-strength materials, the annealing temperature must not be exceeded and the heat treatment
must take place immediately after nickelization.
Dispersion coatings
In the case of special stresses it may be necessary to deposit finely distributed solids in the Ni-P
matrix (type C).
These are for example corundum, silicon carbide, diamond, or PTFE. Solids usually have particle
sizes of 1 to 6 μm. The characteristic material properties will change significantly.
Wear resistance/coating hardness
To determine the wear resistance in the tribological system, the hardness of the coatings is evaluated
in addition to the necessary functional tests. Nickel-phosphorous deposits usually have hardnesses
of 550-600 HV 0,025 at a phosphorous content of 12%. Coatings with a low phosphorous content
(suitable for parts that must not be heat-treated) achieve a hardness of up to 700 HV 0,025.
Appendix A (informative)  
A.1  
A.2  
A.3  
A.3.1  
A.3.2  
Page 5
TL 236: 2009-03


An annealing process (T > 300 °C) can cause a distinct increase in hardness due to cristallization
and the formation of nickel phosphide (Ni3P) in the microstructure. A further increase in temperature
results in a decrease of hardness due to agglomeration of the phosphides.
At treatment temperatures of 400 °C, Vickers hardness levels of 900-1 000 HV 0,025 (max: 1 100
HV 0,025) can be achieved after a treatment period of 1 h.
Page 6
TL 236: 2009-03
