# TL233.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 50 22 3 
November 2003 
Non-Electrolytically Applied Zinc Flake 
Coatings with Top Coating 
Requirements for Surface Protection 
TL 233 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
corrosion protection, surface protection, zinc, aluminum, aluminium, flake, top 
coat, top coating, surface layer, zinc flake coating 
 
Page 1 of 7 
Fachverantwortung/Technical responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32 Koeppen 
Tel:-25803 
Frau Dr. Hasse 
Tel:-42106 
Laudien 
Wiesner 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 12.00 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to TL 233, 2003-09: 
─ 
Typographical mistakes corrected 
(Section 1, was = M6; Section 3.2, was VW 116 24) 
─ 
Examples changed in Section “Scope” (engine area deleted) 
Previous issues 
1982-09; 1983-02; 1991-05; 1992-06; 1993-11; 1998-02; 2003-09 
1 
Scope 
This standard defines the requirements for Cr(VI)-free, non-electrolytically applied surface 
protection types made of zinc and aluminum flakes (min. 75%) with an additional Cr(VI)-free top 
coating for ferrous materials.  
In contrast to the surface protection types acc. to TL 245, the surface protection types described in 
this standard consist of 2 layers forming a coating system; the functionality of the components, e.g. 
color and/or corrosion protection, is ensured by means of a closed organic top coating with a 
greater coating thickness. The layers are applied using the following methods: spray coating, spin 
coating, and electrostatic spray coating. The dip/spin coating method is especially suitable for small 
parts. 
The preferably black layer is used as corrosion protection (e.g. for chassis) and for components for 
which a high temperature load of up to 120 °C is likely in addition to an increased corrosion load. If 
a silver-color top coating is required, the coating shall preferably comply with TL 245. 
Since, with proper pretreatment, hydrogen-induced brittling can hardly be caused by this surface 
protection type, this coating can also be used as corrosion protection for hardened and high-
strength steel parts with tensile strength values = 1000 MPa or surface hardness values > 320 HV. 
The coating is not suitable for components that function as electric conductors (e.g. ground 
connections), and for threaded parts with metric ISO thread < M6 or multipoint socket force 
application acc. to VW 010 43 with a nominal size < 8 or with requirements for loosening torques at 
temperatures > 120 °C. 
2 
Designation 
See VW 137 50, Section 2. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 233: 2003-11 
 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
Surface protection types 
The surface protection types listed in Table 1 apply. The released surface protection types are 
listed in Appendix A.1. 
Table 1  
Protection class 
Characteristics and appearance 
Ofl-t330 
Zinc flake coating with top coating containing lubricant, Cr(VI)-free, 
black1), medium corrosion protection; 
 
not for standard parts and exposed installation positions, but 
predominantly for drawing parts in the passenger compartment (e.g. seat 
belt buckle) 
Ofl-t350 
Zinc flake coating with top coating, Cr(VI)-free, black1), medium corrosion 
protection; 
 
not for threaded parts with metric ISO thread and parts in exposed 
installation positions, but predominantly for drawing parts in the passenger 
compartment (e.g. joining elements for door trim panels, such as tapping 
screws) 
Ofl-t630 
Zinc flake coating with top coating containing lubricant, Cr(VI)-free, 
black1); use in exposed installation positions, e. g. chassis;  
standard surface protection black1) for threaded parts with metric 
ISO thread as well as for drawing parts with tensile strength 
values = 1000 MPa or surface hardness values > 320 HV and 
special tribological requirements for the surface. 
Ofl-t650 
Zinc flake coating with top coating, Cr(VI)-free, black1); use in exposed 
installation positions, e.g. chassis (spring clips, clamps, speed nuts, etc.) 
1) A black top coating is usually applied. If, however, the coating is a color coating, this must be specified in the 
drawing (e.g. Ofl-t630, blue). 
 
3.2 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
Design and process assurance acc. to VW 011 10. 
Approx. 20 parts (depending on size) are required for complete testing. For first-sample release of 
small parts, e.g. threaded joining elements, a test production of = 50 kg shall be performed. 
The coatings and coating materials applied must not contain any Cr(VI) compound. 
Unless certain sections of a part that are marked in the drawing are excluded from the surface 
coating, the entire surface of the parts must comply with the required surface protection type and 
display the prescribed properties.  
The protective coatings must not exhibit any pores, cracks, damage, or other flaws that impair the 
corrosion protection and/or specified appearance. The surface protection types shall firmly adhere 
to the base material; there shall be no flaking or cracks of the coating under elastic deformation. 


Page 3 
TL 233: 2003-11 
 
The coating must be free of flaws and excess material impairing the part’s function. VW 116 24 
(internal threads) and VW 116 27 (external threads) apply for metric ISO threads before coating, 
while VW 116 11 applies to metric ISO threads after coating. The coefficients of frictions specified 
in VW 011 29 must be complied with for joining elements with metric thread. 
The production process and its control shall not impair the functional characteristics of the finished 
part. 
With proper mounting, the coating shall not be damaged in a way that would result in impairment of 
function and/or decrease in the specified corrosion protection. 
Manufacturer, surface protection type, and coating method must be agreed upon for each 
component with the VW Central Laboratory (K-QS-32) and/or the AUDI test laboratories ((I/GQ-32 
and/or N/GQ-55). 
3.3 
Base material 
See drawing. 
3.4 
Pretreatment 
Bright metal surface, alternatively micro-crystalline zinc phosphating (1 to 3 g/m2) is permissible. 
Prior to coating, alkaline or mechanical cleaning shall always be carried out on hardened and high-
strength steel parts with a tensile strength > 1000 MPa. 
3.5 
Color 
Black or colored acc. to drawing. 
3.6 
Dry film 
3.6.1 
General 
Composition acc. to International Material Data System (IMDS). 
3.6.2 
Top coating 
Organic epoxy phenolic resin coating with approx. 3 to 5 weight percent lubricant (PTFE). 
3.6.3 
Top coating containing lubricant 
Organic epoxy phenolic resin coating with approx. 25 weight percent lubricant (PTFE). 
3.7 
Dry coat thickness 
Testing acc. to DIN EN ISO 1463, DIN EN ISO 2064, and DIN EN ISO 2178; measuring point 
position and tolerance zone position for threaded parts with metric ISO thread acc. to 
DIN EN ISO 4042. 


Page 4 
TL 233: 2003-11 
 
3.7.1 
Requirements for Ofl-t330 and Ofl-t350 
Minimum layer thickness 6 µm (zinc flake coating at least 3 µm). 
Maximum layer thickness 25 µm. 
3.7.2 
Requirements for Ofl-t630 and Ofl-t650 
Minimum layer thickness 10 µm (zinc flake coating at least 6 µm). 
Maximum layer thickness 25 µm. Thicker layers are permissible if higher corrosion protection 
requirements exist as compared to the basic requirements, for example, for spring clips (720 h 
resistance to salt spray fog acc. to DIN 50021-SS). 
3.8 
Adhesion and ductility 
3.8.1 
Crosscut test 
Procedure according to DIN EN ISO 2409, requirement: Gt 0 to 1 
3.8.2 
Tape test 
Procedure: Adhesive tape with an adhesive strength of (7 ± 1) N per 25 mm width is used for the 
adhesion test acc. to DIN EN ISO 10683. It shall be firmly pressed onto the specimen surface and 
then removed with a jerk-like motion perpendicular to the surface. There must be no large-surface 
removal of the coating. Small particles of the coating that adhere to the tape are permissible. 
3.8.3 
Ductility 
The coating shall not exhibit any flaking when springs expand or contract acc. to specifications or 
when spring washers are bent during assembly. 
3.9 
Corrosion behavior 
3.9.1 
Load in condensed water constant climate 
Test according to DIN 50017-KK. 
Requirement: No blisters or other signs of coating separation, no base metal corrosion after 240 h. 
After subsequent acclimatization for 24 h at (23 ± 2) °C, the requirements specified in Section 3.8 
shall still be fulfilled. 
3.9.2 
Resistance to salt spray fog with incision based on DIN EN ISO 7253 
Testing according to DIN 50021-SS. 
For threaded parts with metric ISO thread, the requirements only apply to head and/or wrench 
bearing surfaces; for nuts, only for face surfaces and wrench bearing surfaces. For threaded and 
similar molded parts, such as studs, the test requirements only apply to the face surfaces. 


Page 5 
TL 233: 2003-11 
 
Requirements: 
No surface changes (no gray cast) 
─ 
after 120 h (for all Ofl protection types) 
No base metal corrosion, no rust creep along incision 
─ 
after 240 h (for Ofl-t330 and Ofl-t350) 
─ 
after 480 h (for Ofl-t630 and Ofl-t650) 
3.10 
Resistance to chemicals (only for first-sample test) 
Test according to VDA 621-412, A; evaluation according to DIN 53230, Table 2; test fluids and 
requirements according to Table 2. 
Table 2  
No. 
Test fluid 
Requirement 
1 
For parts to be installed in the engine compartment 
1.1 
Gasoline premium unleaded according to 
DIN EN 228 
1.2 
Diesel fuel according to DIN EN 590 
1.3 
Vegetable oil methyl ester acc. to 
DIN V 51606 
1.4 
Factory-fill engine oil (1 h at 100 °C)  
acc. to TL 521 07 
1.5 
Automatic transmission oil acc. to TL 521 62 
1.6 
Central hydraulic system oil according to TL 
521 46 
No surface changes and no impairment 
of corrosion protection 
Corrosion class: max. 1 
2 
For parts to be installed outside the engine compartment 
2.1 
Brake fluid acc. to TL 766 
2.2 
Coolant acc. to TL 774 
Minor change permissible, but corrosion 
class after 5 h resting period: max. 1 
 
4 
Referenced standards1 
PV 1210 
Body and Add-On Parts, Corrosion Test 
TL 766 
Brake Fluid, Material Requirements 
TL 774 
Ethylene Glycol-Based Coolant Additive, Material Requirements 
TL 521 07 
SAE 15W-40 Factory Fill Engine Oil, Lubricant Requirements 
TL 521 46 
Central Hydraulic System Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
VW 011 10 
Threaded Joints; Design, Assembly and Process Assurance 
VW 010 43 
Drive Shape for Threaded Parts; Multipoint Socket Profile 
VW 011 29  
Limit Values for Coefficients of Friction; Mechanical Joining Elements with 
Metric ISO Thread 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
                                                
1 In this section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 


Page 6 
TL 233: 2003-11 
 
VW 116 11 
Metric ISO Thread; Limit Dimensions with Surface Protection Layer for 
Medium Tolerance Class (6H/6g) 
VW 116 24 
Metric ISO Thread; Limit Dimensions for 6G/6f Tolerance Zone 
VW 116 27 
Thread Limit Dimension for External Threads of Tolerance Class 6e; Metric 
ISO Thread 
VW 137 50 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Degrees of Protection, Codes, 
Requirements 
VW 911 01 
Vehicle Environmental Standard; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids; 
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
VDA 621-412 
Tests for Coating Methods, Resistance to Chemicals of Automotive Paints 
DIN V 51606 
Liquid Fuels - Diesel Fuel from Vegetable Oil Methylester (PME), Minimum 
Requirements 
DIN 50017 
Atmospheres and their Technical Application; Condensation Water Test 
Atmospheres 
DIN 53230 
Testing of Paints, Varnishes and Similar Coating Materials; Scheme for the 
Evaluation of Tests 
DIN EN 228 
Automotive Fuels, Unleaded Petrol, Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 590 
Automotive Fuels; Diesel; Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN ISO 1463 
Metallic and Oxide Coatings – Measurement of Coating Thickness; 
Microscopical Method 
DIN EN ISO 2178 
Non-Magnetic Coatings on Magnetic Substrates; Measurement of Coating 
Thickness; Magnetic Method 
DIN EN ISO 2064 
Metallic and Other Non-Organic Coatings - Definitions and Conventions 
Concerning the Measurement of Thickness 
DIN EN ISO 2409 
Paints and Varnishes, Crosscut Test 
DIN EN ISO 4042 
Fasteners – Electroplated Coatings 
DIN EN ISO 7253 
Paints and Varnishes - Determination of Resistance to Neutral Salt Spray 
(Fog) 
DIN EN ISO 10683 
Non-Electrolytically Applied Zinc Flake Coatings 


Page 7 
TL 233: 2003-11 
 
Appendix A (informative) 
Released surface protection systems 
Only the products DELTA-PROTEKT® KL100, DELTA-TONE® 9000, and DELTA-SEAL® GZ are 
released for threaded parts with metric ISO thread (see Table A.1). 
Table A.1 
 
Ofl-t630 
(for threaded parts with 
metric ISO thread) 
Ofl-t330 and Ofl-t630 
 
(for general components) 
Ofl-t350 and Ofl-t650 
 
(for general components) 
Basic layer 
DELTA-PROTEKT® 
KL100, company Dörken-
MKS-Systeme, 
DELTA-TONE® 9000, 
company Dörken-MKS-
Systeme 
DELTA-PROTEKT® KL100, company Dörken-MKS-
Systeme, 
DELTA-TONE® 9000, company Dörken-MKS-Systeme, 
Magni-Flake, company Magni Europe 
Top coating 
(optional design: 
black/colored) 
DELTA-SEAL® GZ, 
company Dörken-MKS-
Systeme 
DELTA-SEAL® GZ, company 
Dörken-MKS-Systeme, 
Magni-Top GZ, company 
Magni Europe 
DELTA-SEAL®, company 
Dörken-MKS-Systeme, 
Magni-Top, company Magni 
Europe 
 
