# TL238.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 24 1
October 2003
Surface Protection, Steel Disk Wheels
Surface protection requirements
TL
238
Konzernnorm
2 Types: no index (= O), A
Descriptors:
disk wheel, wheel, steel disk wheel, full wheel cover, surface protection
Page 1 of 4
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733)
K-QS-32
Jöck
Tel: -28506
Wiesner
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064
Sobanski
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 01.03
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification
TL 238, 1997-11:
─ 
Referenced standards updated
─ 
Standard restructured
─ 
Testing in moisture condensate constant climate DIN 50017-KK added
Previous issues
1986-02; 1994-11; 1997-09
1 
Scope
This TL specifies the requirements of decorative corrosion protection for steel disk wheels that are
produced using single coat paint (Type A for wheels with full wheel covers) or multicoat paint
(Type without index, produced in-house).
2 
Designation
E.g. surface protection according to TL 238 A
3 
Requirements
3.1 
Basic specifications
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 011 55.
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01.
4 Parts and, if necessary, 4 test panels are required for a complete test.
All locations on the part for which the following requirements do not apply shall be identified
appropriately in the drawing.
On the front surface that is visible when installed, the parts must have a uniform appearance
according to the drawing and the released sample.
Pores, coarse cracks and other flaws that adversely affect the specified appearance are not
permissible.
3.2 
Conditioning
The parts shall be conditioned 24 h at 60 °C before the tests.
The English translation is believed to be accurate.
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2
TL 238: 2003-10
3.3 
Evaluation of the measuring results
The required numerical values apply to each individual measurement.
3.4 
Properties
See Table 1.
Table 1
Requirements
No.
Property
Type without index
Type A
1
Material
1.1
Base material
Steel according to drawing
1.2
Pretreatment
Zinc phosphating
1.3
Primer coat
Cathodic thick coat priming
Cathodic dip paint,
black
1.4
Base coat
Wheel paint, silver; others according
to color combination table or special
combination
-
1.5
Clear coat
According to release sample, test
According to IR spectrum
-
2
Coating thickness
2.1
Total paint coat thickness
≥ 65 µm
≥ 15 µm
2.2
Primer coat
25 to 30 µm
≥ 15 µm
2.3
Base coat
≥ 15 µm
-
2.4
Clear top coat
≥ 25 µm
-
2.5
Spherical caps and
contact surfaces
max. 30 µm
max. 30 µm
3
Adhesion and brittleness
crosscut test acc. to
DIN EN ISO 2409
Gt 0-1
4
Moisture-condensate constant
climate acc. to DIN 50 017-KK
Test duration 240 h
No base metal corrosion and no blisters;
the requirement from no. 3 must still be fulfilled
5
Corrosion cycle test
acc. to PV 1210,
test duration: 30 cycles,
scribing line acc. to
DIN EN ISO 7253, Section 8.5
and DIN EN ISO 4628-8.
No base metal corrosion, no blisters;
rust creep Wb ≤ 2.5 mm
6
Stone-impact stress
acc. to DIN 55996-1
Max. characteristic value 2
7
Temperature resistance of paint
coating, test 48 h at 150 °C in
mechanical circulation oven
No yellowing of the paint coating
-


Page 3
TL 238: 2003-10
Requirements
No.
Property
Type without index
Type A
8
Lightfastness and weather resistance
8.1
Weathering in moist-heat
climate1) acc. to PV 3930,
test duration 1 year cycle
No visible color change
-
8.2
Weathering in dry-heat climate1)
Acc. to PV 3929, test duration
1 year cycle
No visible color change
-
9
Resistance of the clear coat
to UV radiation, test
acc. to PV 15021)
No formation of cracks on the clear coat
-
10
Resistance to chemicals acc. to VDA 621-412, Test A, with respect to
10.1
Diesel fuel acc. to DIN EN 590
10.2
Gasoline, super lead-free
acc. to DIN EN 228,
10 min at room temperature
10.3
Polish2)
10.4
Asphalt and tar remover3)
10.5
Sealant and sealant remover4)
No change in the paint surface
1)
If a test on finished sections is not possible, the tests are carried out on 2 corresponding test panels (65 x 220 mm).
2)
Apply polish (paint cleaner 000 096 418 001) with a cellulose pad, let dry and then buff with cotton.
3)
5 g Panmex asphalt “85/25” from Esso stirred with 5 ml benzene to make a paste. Then this paste is applied to cover an
approx. 3 cm ∅ area of the test specimen. After 1 h exposure period, the part is cleaned of the tar paste using tar remover
(000 096 501 A 001).
4)
Sealant AKR 321 W 30 and acrylate sealant AKR 318 A 20. A partial section is coated with sealant by immersion. After 24 h aging at
room temperature, the wax coating is rinsed for 3 min in petroleum heated to 80 °C by keeping the part in motion during immersion.


Page 4
TL 238: 2003-10
4 
Referenced standards*)
PV 1210
Body and Add-on Parts; Corrosion Test
PV 1502
Clear Coat in Dual Layer Metallic Paint Coatings; Test of Resistance
to Cracking
PV 3929
Non-metallic Materials; Weather Aging in Dry-Hot Climate
PV 3930
Nichtmetallische Werkstoffe, Bewitterung in feucht-warmem Klima (currently
only available in German)
VW 011 55
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 911 01
Vehicle Environmental Standard; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids;
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
VDA 621-412
Anstrichtechnische Prüfungen, Chemikalienbeständigkeit von Kraftfahrzeug-
Lackierungen (only available in German)
DIN 50017
Atmospheres and Their Technical Application; Condensation Water Test
Atmosphere
DIN 55996-1
Paints and Varnishes – Stone Chip Resistance Test for Coatings – Part 1:
Multi Impact Test
DIN EN ISO 4628-8
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings; Designation
of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform Changes in
Appearance – Part 8: Evaluation of Corrosion around a Scribe
DIN EN ISO 7253
Paints and Varnishes – Determination of Resistance to Neutral Salt
Spray (Fog)
                                                
*)
In this Section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
