# TL240_EN_2004-01-01.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 22 1 
January 2004 
Thin-Layer Zinc Phosphating 
Requirements for Surface Protection 
TL 
240 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
phosphating, zinc, zinc phosphating, thin-layer phosphating 
 
Page 1 of 3 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32 
Koeppen 
Tel: -25803 
Laudien 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 240, 1991-11: 
─ 
Standard completely revised 
─ 
Error in the wording of the corrosion resistance requirement corrected (was 8 h) 
Previous issues 
1986-01; 1991-11 
1 
Scope 
This Technical Supply Specification (TL standard) specifies the surface protection requirements for 
thin-layer zinc phosphating on screws, bolts, nuts and similar threaded parts. 
2 
Designation 
See VW 137 50, section 2. 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
Surface protection types 
Surface protection type Ofl-b140 applies. 
3.2 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to Volkswagen standard VW 911 01. 
The coating media used as well as the coatings must contain no Cr(VI) compounds. 
Design and process assurance according to Volkswagen standard VW 011 10. 
Coefficients of friction according to Volkswagen standard VW 011 29. 
Approx. 20 parts (depending on size) are required for complete testing. For first-sample release of 
small parts, e.g. threaded fastening elements, a test production run of ≥ 50 kg shall be performed. 
3.3 
Appearance and structure 
Dark gray to black. The thin-layer zinc phosphating must be uniform and crystalline in structure and 
exhibit firm adherence. Salt and powder residues are not permitted (see Appendix A.1). 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 


Page 2 
TL 240: 2004-01 
 
3.4 
Post-treatment 
To improve the corrosion protection and friction properties, the zinc phosphated parts can be post-
treated (see Appendix A.2). 
3.5 
Mass per unit area 
Test according to DIN EN ISO 3892. Requirement: (2 to 7) g/m². 
3.6 
Corrosion resistance 
Testing according to DIN 50021-SS. 
Requirement: 6 h with no base metal corrosion on thread-free surfaces and/or max. 1% base metal 
corrosion in the threaded area. 
4 
Referenced standards*) 
VW 011 10 
Threaded Joints; Design, Assembly and Process Assurance 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 011 29 
Limit Values for Coefficients of Friction; Mechanical Joining Elements with 
Metric ISO Thread 
VW 137 50 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Degrees of Protection, Codes, 
Requirements 
VW 911 01 
Vehicle Environmental Standard; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids; 
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN 50021 
Spray Tests with Different Sodium Chloride Solutions 
DIN EN ISO 3892 
Conversion Coatings on Metallic Materials – Determination of Coating Mass 
Per Unit Area, Gravimetric Methods 
                                                
*) In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
 


Page 3 
TL 240: 2004-01 
 
Appendix A (informative) 
Recommendations 
A.1 
Zinc phosphating 
The following products are recommended for producing the zinc phosphate layer: 
Gardobond Z 3844 
company: Chemetall, 
Granodraw 4723 IT and Granodine 4104 IT 
company: Henkel, 
Granodine 4105 IT 
company: Henkel, 
Granodine 860 and Granodraw 830 
company: Henkel, 
Granodraw C 516 and Granodraw C 519 
company: Henkel. 
A.2 
Post-treatment 
The following products are recommended for post-treatment: 
Gardolene CP 8006 
company: Chemetall, 
Multan 5750 IT 
company: Henkel, 
Emulpon 2901, Emulpon 2902 and Emulpon 2903 company: Henkel, 
Granolube 6352 and Novaseal 6500 
company: Henkel. 
