# TL243.pdf

 
Group Standard 
TL 243
2008-05
Class. No.: 
50222 
Descriptors:  
aluminum, magnesium, coatings, corrosion protection, surface protection 
 
Check standard for current issue prior to usage.  
Page 1 of 5 
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature. The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German 
version shall govern. Numerical notation acc. to ISO practice. 
Technical Responsibility 
Standards Department 
I/GQ-323  Dr. Bertram Reinhold 
Phone: +49 841 89 40967 
I/EZ-11  Heinz J. Winkler 
Phone: +49 841 89 30965 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a standards department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract shall obtain this standard only via the B2B supplier platform www.vwgroupsupply.com. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
 
vwnorm-2007-07 
 
 
Electrolytically Deposited Al Coatings and  
Al/Mg Alloy Coatings 
Surface Protection Requirements 
 
Contents 
 
Page 
1 
Scope................................................................................................................................2 
2 
Description ........................................................................................................................2 
3 
Requirements....................................................................................................................2 
3.1 
Surface protection types....................................................................................................2 
3.2 
General requirements........................................................................................................2 
3.3 
Joining elements ...............................................................................................................3 
3.4 
Galvanic deposition of aluminum layers.............................................................................3 
3.5 
Galvanic deposition of aluminum/magnesium alloy layers .................................................3 
3.6 
Cr(VI)-free conversion layers.............................................................................................3 
3.7 
Adhesion ...........................................................................................................................4 
3.8 
Pretreatment .....................................................................................................................4 
3.9 
Magnesium content in aluminum/magnesium alloy layers .................................................4 
3.10 
Corrosion behavior ............................................................................................................4 
3.10.1 
Surface corrosion behavior................................................................................................4 
3.10.2 
Contact corrosion behavior................................................................................................5 
4 
Referenced documents .....................................................................................................5 
 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification TL 243: 
2003-02: 
─ 
Ofl-q610 and Ofl-q615 removed 
─ 
Section 3.9 revised 
─ 
Tables adapted 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 243: 2008-05 
 
Previous issues 
1988-07; 1991-02; 2003-02 
1 
Scope 
This standard specifies requirements for electrolytically-deposited and Cr(VI)-free post-treated 
aluminum and aluminum/magnesium alloy coatings on ferrous materials and steel parts with any 
tensile strength according to code letter q specified in Volkswagen standard VW 13750. 
These coatings used as heavy-duty corrosion protection (protection class 6) are especially suitable 
for threaded fastening elements and small parts that are subject to an increased corrosion and 
temperature load. Due to their electrochemical compatibility, the electrolytically-deposited 
aluminum coatings are suitable for a use in contact with aluminum materials. 
The aluminum/magnesium alloy coatings are electrochemically compatible with magnesium and 
with aluminum due to their passivity and alkali resistance. 
For the mentioned layers, there is no danger of hydrogen embrittlement of the base material in the 
case of galvanic deposition. 
2 
Description 
See VW 13750, Section 2. 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
Surface protection types 
The surface protection types listed in Table 1 apply. 
Table 1 
Surface 
protection type 
Characteristics and appearance 
Ofl-q600 
Aluminum coating, deposited from non-aqueous electrolytes with thin 
film passivation, silvery matte 
Ofl-q605 
Same as q600, but additionally treated with sliding agent 
3.2 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 01155. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 91101. 
A total of 10 finished parts are required for complete testing. 
Unless certain areas of parts (which must be identified on the drawing) have been excepted from 
surface coating, the parts must exhibit the specified surface protection, with the specified 
properties, over the entire surface. The coatings must adhere firmly to the base material. 
Before coating, threaded parts must exhibit a tolerance zone position corresponding to the coating 
thickness, metric threads preferably according to VW 11624. After the coating process, the 
h-position must not be exceeded or fallen below. 
The protective coatings must not exhibit any pores, cracks, damage, or other flaws that impair the 
corrosion protection or specified appearance. 


Page 3 
TL 243: 2008-05 
 
 
Given proper mounting, the coating must not be damaged in any way that would lead to impairment 
of function or of the specified corrosion protection. 
There is no upper limit of the tensile strength for the parts to be coated due to the electrolytic 
deposition from non-aqueous electrolytes. 
3.3 
Joining elements 
For screws and quick fastening elements, the test specifications listed in Section 3.10 only apply to 
the head and the wrench bearing surfaces; for nuts, they apply only to the face surfaces and 
wrench bearing surfaces. For threaded and thread-like formed parts, such as tap end studs, the 
test requirements only apply to the face surfaces. 
The reduced requirements according to Section 3.10.1 apply to process-related weak spots of the 
coating on joining elements, such as the shank and the thread. 
The specifications in DIN EN ISO 4042 concerning the maximum permissible thickness of the 
electroplated coating in the thread profile must be observed. 
Joining elements with metric threads must be treated with sliding agent according to TL 52132 in 
order to ensure constant coefficients of friction. The coefficients of friction are tested according to 
VW 01129. 
3.4 
Galvanic deposition of aluminum layers 
The aluminum layer must only be deposited electrolytically from non-aqueous aluminum-organic 
complex electrolytes, using soluble pure aluminum anodes. 
The layers must be passivated immediately after the electrolytic deposition using Cr(VI)-free 
passivation treatments. 
3.5 
Galvanic deposition of aluminum/magnesium alloy layers 
The aluminum/magnesium alloy layers must only be deposited electrolytically from non-aqueous 
aluminum-organic complex electrolytes, using soluble aluminum and magnesium anodes or 
aluminum/magnesium alloy anodes. Only the base electrolytes specified in the European patent 
application EP 1141447 must be used. 
The layers must be passivated immediately after the electrolytic deposition using Cr(VI)-free 
passivation treatments. 
3.6 
Cr(VI)-free conversion layers 
Colorless and blue passivation treatments, so called thin film passivation treatments, with a layer 
thickness of approx. 0,1 µm are generally permitted as passivation post-treatment. 
The corrosion protection is further improved using so-called thick layer passivation treatments (with 
a layer thickness of approx. 0,5 µm). These types of passivation treatments, which result from 
currentless deposition at high temperatures and elevated chromium contents, may also be used for 
passivating. 
A subsequent silicate sealing of this thick layer passivation treatment is not permitted for threaded 
fastening elements; it would impair the quality of the subsequent sliding agent treatment, which is 
necessary to ensure the required coefficients of friction. 


Page 4 
TL 243: 2008-05 
 
3.7 
Adhesion 
Adhesive tape with an adhesive strength of (7 ± 1) N per 25 mm of width is used for the adhesion 
test. It is firmly pressed by hand onto the surface and then removed with a sudden motion 
perpendicular to the surface. There must not be any large-surface-area separation or damage of 
the coating. Small amounts of the passivation film adhering to the tape are permissible. 
The deposition of a nickel or copper flash to optimize adhesion is permissible. 
3.8 
Pretreatment 
Only non-aqueous media are permissible for pretreatment of parts made of steel as base material. 
The same applies to other base materials that may be subject to hydrogen embrittlement. 
3.9 
Magnesium content in aluminum/magnesium alloy layers 
X-ray fluorescence test method using measuring instruments based on DIN EN ISO 3497. 
In exceptional cases, a magnesium content of (18 to 24) weight percent is permissible if the 
coatings are required to exhibit a special alkali resistance. This must be agreed with the 
responsible test laboratory in each case and specified on the drawing. 
3.10 
Corrosion behavior 
3.10.1 
Surface corrosion behavior 
The corrosion resistance of the systems must be ensured in the as-received condition and also 
after a 24-hour period of aging at elevated temperature of 120 °C. These are minimum 
requirements and must always be complied with. 
Testing according to DIN EN ISO 9227. 
The test durations and requirements in Table 2 apply to the evaluation of electroplated aluminum 
and aluminum/magnesium alloy coatings, including the passivation layers. 
Table 2 
Test duration in h 
Surface 
protection type 
Barrel plated 
goods 
Rack plated 
goods 
Requirement 
240 
240 
No aluminum corrosion 
Ofl-q600, q605 
720 
720 
Base metal corrosion < 2% 
 


Page 5 
TL 243: 2008-05 
 
 
For evaluation of the shank and thread areas of threaded and quick fastening elements, the 
requirements according to Table 3 apply. 
Table 3 
Test duration in h 
Surface 
protection type 
Barrel plated 
goods 
Rack plated 
goods 
Requirement 
120 
120 
No aluminum corrosion 
Ofl-q600, q605 
480 
480 
Base metal corrosion < 2% 
3.10.2 
Contact corrosion behavior 
The test according to Test Specification PV 1201 applies to surface q600. 
Evaluation according to PV 1201, Section 6 
4 
Referenced documents 
The 
following 
documents 
cited 
in 
this 
standard 
are 
necessary 
for 
application. 
In this Section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
PV 1201 
Securing and Add-On Parts for Unit Housings Made from Magnesium Alloys; 
Test of Effect Causing Galvanic Corrosion 
TL 52132 
Lubricant for Threaded Fastening Elements with Electrolytically Applied 
Coatings or those of Stainless Steel; Requirements 
VW 01129 
Limit Values for Coefficients of Friction; Mechanical Joining Elements with 
Metric ISO Thread 
VW 01155 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 11624 
Metric ISO Threads; Limit Dimensions for 6G/6f Tolerance Zone, Male 6f 
Female 6G 
VW 13750 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Surface Protection Types, Codes 
VW 91101 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN EN ISO 3497 
Metallic Coatings – Measurement of Coating Thickness – X-Ray Spectrometric 
Methods 
DIN EN ISO 4042 
Fasteners – Electroplated Coatings 
DIN EN ISO 9227 
Corrosion Tests in Artificial Atmospheres – Salt Spray Tests 
Patent Application EP 1141447 
