# TL247.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 22 3 
December 2004 
Paint Coating, Cylinder Head Covers 
Surface Protection Requirements 
TL 
247 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
corrosion protection, surface protection, paint, cylinder head cover 
 
Page 1 of 4 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32/2 
Koeppen 
Tel: -25803 
Laudien 
Dr. Eisenberg 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 247, 2001-07: 
─ 
Note for restricted usage removed 
─ 
Standard restructured 
─ 
Referenced standards updated 
Previous issues 
1988-09; 2001-07 
1 
Scope 
This Technical Supply Specification (TL standard) defines requirements for decorative paint 
coatings (liquid or powder paints) on cylinder head covers (cast aluminum alloys). 
2 
Description 
Painted according to TL 247 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen Standard VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
Required for complete testing: three finished parts and, if necessary, six test panels, coated under 
near-production conditions. 
The coating shall exhibit the specified surface protection, with the specified properties, over its 
entire surface. 
The coatings shall be free of pores, cracks, foreign matter inclusions, damage and other flaws that 
impair the corrosion protection and/or specified appearance. 
The coating shall adhere firmly to the base material under proper part use. 
The production process and its control shall not impair the functional characteristics of the finished 
part. 
Given proper mounting, there shall occur no damage if this would lead to impairment of function 
and/or decrease of the specified corrosion protection. 
Air-drying coating systems shall be conditioned for 24 h at +60 °C prior to testing. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 247: 2004-12 
 
3.2 
Base material 
Cast aluminum alloys according to drawing. 
3.3 
Pretreatment 
Cr(VI)-free conversion coating (e.g., passivation, phosphating). 
3.4 
Color 
Gray aluminum according to RAL 90071) or color as specified in drawing. 
3.5 
Coating thickness 
Test according to DIN EN ISO 2178 or DIN EN ISO 1463. 
Liquid paint: ≥ 25 µm, powder paint: ≥ 60 µm. 
3.6 
Adhesion and brittleness 
Crosscut test according to DIN EN ISO 2409. 
Requirement: ≤ characteristic value 1. 
3.7 
Temperature resistance 
Charcoal gray coatings are tested at +140 °C, silver-colored coatings at +120 °C. The paint shall 
not change (e.g., by discoloration) after 240 h aging at the respective test temperature; loss 
of adhesion is not permissible. 
The requirements in Section 3.6 must subsequently be fulfilled. 
3.8 
Corrosion resistance 
3.8.1 
Corrosion cycle test 
15 
cycles 
according 
to 
Test Specification 
PV 1210 
with 
scribing 
line 
according 
to 
DIN EN ISO 7253, Section 8.5. 
No base metal corrosion, no blistering or spotting on the coated surface, adhesion loss 
D ≤ 1.5 mm. 
3.8.2 
Test in moisture-condensate constant climate 
240 h aging according to DIN 50017-KK. 
No base metal corrosion, no blistering or spotting on the coated surface, the requirement 
in Section 3.6 must still be fulfilled. 
                                                
1) 
Deutsches Institut für Gütesicherung und Kennzeichnung e.V. 


Page 3 
TL 247: 2004-12 
 
3.9 
Resistance to chemicals (only for first-sample test) 
Test according to VDA2) 621-412 in the following media: 
─ 
FAM test fuel according to VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.1 Y, 
─ 
Diesel fuel according to TL 788 and VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.2 X, 
─ 
Biodiesel (FAME) according to DIN EN 14214 and VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.2 X, 
─ 
Premium unleaded gasoline according to DIN EN 228 and test according to VDA 621-412, 
test A 4.1.3 Y, 
─ 
Factory-fill engine oil according to TL 521 73 (Burmah Castrol Oil code A97075PBC) and 
VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.4 X, 
─ 
Hydraulic fluid according to TL 521 46 and VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.6 X, 
─ 
Automatic transmission fluid according to TL 521 62 and VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.7 X, 
─ 
Coolant according to TL 774 and VDA 621-412, test A 4.2.2 X. 
In each case, surface changes are not permitted. 
Also test in brake fluid according to TL 766 and VDA 621-412, test A 4.2.1 X. The following 
requirement applies to this medium: Swellings that have corrected themselves after 24 h are 
permissible. 
                                                
2) 
German Association of the Automotive Industry 


Page 4 
TL 247: 2004-12 
 
4 
Referenced standards3) 
PV 1210 
Body and Add-On Parts; Corrosion Test 
TL 766 
Brake Fluid; Material Requirements 
TL 774 
Ethylene Glycol Based Coolant Additives; Material Requirements 
TL 788 
Diesel Fuel; Fuel Requirements 
TL 521 46 
Central Hydraulic System Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 521 62 
Factory-Fill-for-Life Automatic Transmission Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 521 73 
Factory Fill Engine Oil SAE 0W-30 with Fuel-saving Properties for Extended 
Oil Change Intervals; Requirements, Testing 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
VDA 621-412 
Tests for Coating Methods; Resistance to Chemicals of Motor Vehicle 
Paints (only available in German) 
DIN 50017 
Atmospheres and their Technical Application; Condensation Water Test 
Atmospheres 
DIN EN 228 
Automotive Fuels – Unleaded Petrol – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 14214 
Automotive Fuels – Fatty Acid Methyl Esters (FAME) for Diesel Engines – 
Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN ISO 1463 
Metallic and Oxide Coatings – Measurement of Coating Thickness; 
Microscopical Method 
DIN EN ISO 2178 
Non-Magnetic Coatings on Magnetic Substrates – Measurement of Coating 
Thickness – Magnetic Method 
DIN EN ISO 2409 
Paints and Varnishes – Cross-Cut Test 
DIN EN ISO 7253 
Paints and Varnishes – Determination of Resistance to Neutral Salt 
Spray (Fog) 
                                                
3)  In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
