# TL245_EN_2004-12-01.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 22 3 
December 2004 
Non-Electrolytically Applied  
Zinc-Flake Coatings 
Surface Protection Requirements 
TL 
245 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
corrosion protection, surface protection, zinc, aluminum, flake, Delta-Protekt, 
Delta-Tone, Geomet 
 
Page 1 of 8 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32/2 
Ackermann 
Tel: -38255 
Laudien 
Dr. Eisenberg 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 245, 2002-10: 
 
Scope revised 
 
New descriptions of surface protection (Table 1) 
 
Section 3.11.1 “Test according to DIN 50 017 KK”: 
 
Permitted corrosion level changed from “Ri 0 to Ri 1” to “Ri 0” 
 
Section 3.11.2 “Test according to DIN 50021 SS”: 
 
Separation between barrel-coated and rack-coated goods introduced 
 
Requirements for corrosion resistance reduced for Ofl-t610 
 
Section 3.12 “Resistance to chemicals”: 
 
This section was updated, and the separation between components of the engine 
compartment and components from outside the engine compartment was eliminated 
 
Surface protection type Ofl-t615 added 
 
Assignment of Cr(VI)-free alternatives changed 
 
Referenced standards updated 
Previous issues 
1987-08; 1989-10; 1990-01; 1991-03; 1991-11; 1992-10; 1993-07; 1997-12; 2002-10 
1 
Scope 
This standard defines the requirements on Cr(VI)-free surface protection types made of zinc and 
aluminum flakes non-electrolytically applied to ferrous materials. 
Silver-gray flake coatings shall be used as heavy-duty corrosion protection for components with a 
high corrosion load. With an appropriate layer structure, the zinc-flake coatings are able to 
withstand temperatures, such as those occurring in the area of the engine compartment and brake 
(details see Table 1). 
Since this coating process poses no risk of hydrogen-induced brittling, it is preferably used 
as corrosion protection for hardened and high-strength steel parts with tensile strength 
values > 1,000 MPa or surface hardness values > 320 HV. The protection system shall be chosen 
such that the strength and hardness are not impaired by the treatment temperatures. 
Zinc-flake coatings are also suitable for use as a coating for ferrous materials in contact with 
aluminum components (however, not for those in contact with magnesium components). 
The coating is not suitable for parts that 
 
serve as electrical conductors (e.g. ground connections), 
 
have multipoint sockets according to Volkswagen standard VW 010 43 < N8 and hexalobular 
sockets according to VW 010 48 < T30, 
 
have hexagon sockets < 5 and cross recesses according to DIN EN ISO 4757 < H3, 
 
have a thread of < M6. 
In order to avoid clogging caused by coating particles that come loose, zinc-flake coatings should 
only be used inside units (e.g. oil chamber) in exceptional cases. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 


Page 2 
TL 245: 2004-12 
 
2 
Designation 
See VW 137 50, Section 2. 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
Surface protection types 
The surface protection types listed in Table 1 apply; for replacement of surface protection types 
that are no longer permitted, see Table 2. Examples of systems that were previously released 
part-specifically are listed in Appendix A.1. 
Table 1 
Surface protection 
type 
Characteristics and appearance 
Ofl-t602 
Basic coating with topcoat (inorganic), without lubricant additive. 
Zinc-flake coating, Cr(VI)-free, silver-gray; use in exposed installation 
positions, e.g. in the engine compartment and chassis areas. 
– Burn-in temperature up to max. +300 °C, 
– Endurance service temperature max. +180 °C (short-term temperature 
peaks up to +300 °C). 
Ofl-t610 
Basic coating without topcoat, without lubricant additive. 
Zinc-flake coating, Cr(VI)-free, silver-gray; corrosion protection preferably 
for components that are to be painted (body construction). Standard 
surface protection for threaded parts with microencapsulation. 
– Burn-in temperature up to max. +200 °C, 
– Reduced corrosion resistance (see Section 3.11), 
– Reduced endurance service temperature without additional coatings 
(+125 °C). 
Ofl-t611 
As for Ofl-t602, but with lower burn-in temperature. Consequently, suitable 
for components that cannot be exposed to high temperatures, e.g. spring 
elements, low-temperature formed and hardened sheets or high-strength 
steel parts. 
– Burn-in temperature max. +230 °C, 
– Endurance service temperature max. +200 °C (short-term temperature 
peaks up to +300 °C). 
Ofl-t615 
As for Ofl-t610, but additionally lubricant (greenish) according to 
TL 521 65. Standard surface protection for self-locking nuts with plastic 
locking element. 
– Burn-in temperature up to max. +200 °C, 
– Reduced corrosion resistance (see Section 3.11), 
– Reduced endurance service temperature without additional coatings 
 
(+125 °C). 
Ofl-t647 
Basic coating with topcoat (inorganic), with lubricant additive. 
Zinc-flake coating, Cr(VI)-free, silver-gray, standard surface protection for 
threaded parts with metric ISO standard threads (see VW 011 10) 
– Burn-in temperature up to max. +300 °C, 
– Endurance service temperature max. +180 °C (short-term temperature 
peaks up to +300 °C). 
 


Page 3 
TL 245: 2004-12 
 
Table 2 
Impermissible surface protection type for 
new designs 
Protection type designated for new designs
Components of a general nature 
Ofl-t300  
Ofl-t610 
Ofl-t310 
Ofl-t610 
Ofl-t320 
Ofl-t611 
Ofl-t600 
Ofl-t602 1) 
Ofl-t620 
Ofl-t602 1) 
Threaded parts with metric ISO standard threads 
Ofl-t300  
Ofl-t647 2) 
Ofl-t310 
Ofl-t647 2) 
Ofl-t320 
Ofl-t647 3) 
Ofl-t345 
Ofl-t647 3) 
Ofl-t600 
Ofl-t647 2) 
Ofl-t620 
Ofl-t647 3) 
Ofl-t645 
Ofl-t647 3) 
1) 
Ofl-t611, if operating temperatures of up to 200 °C and/or if lower burn-in temperatures up to max. 230 °C are required 
2) 
Ofl-t610, if component is installed in the body construction before painting or for threaded parts with microencapsulation 
3) 
Ofl-t615, if self-locking nut with plastic locking element 
 
3.2 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
10 finished parts are required for complete testing. For first-sample release of small parts, 
e.g., threaded fastening elements, a test production of > 50 kg shall be performed. 
The coating materials must not contain any Cr(VI) compounds in order to ensure that the resultant 
coatings are likewise Cr(VI)-free. 
Unless certain sections of a part that are marked in the drawing are excluded from the surface 
coating, the entire surface of the parts must comply with the required surface protection type and 
display the prescribed properties. There shall be firm adhesion between coatings and base material 
(see Section 3.10); there shall be no flaking of the coating or cracks under elastic deformation. 
The protective coatings must not exhibit any pores, cracks, damage, or other flaws that impair the 
corrosion protection and/or function. 
The production process and its control shall not impair the functional characteristics of the finished 
part. Thus for example, the coating must not flake or crack when the springs or spring washers are 
mounted or used as intended. 
With proper mounting, the coating shall not be damaged in a way that would result in impairment 
of function and/or decrease in the specified corrosion protection. 


Page 4 
TL 245: 2004-12 
 
The selection of supplier and coating system is subject to agreement with the VW Group Central 
Laboratory (K-QS-32) and/or the AUDI Group Test Laboratories (I/GQ-32 and N/GQ-55) prior to 
usage of the given part. 
3.3 
Threaded parts with metric ISO standard threads 
The coating process shall not impair the mechanical and physical properties specified for joining 
elements. Therefore, the manufacturer has to check whether the baking conditions specified by the 
coating company are suitable for the parts to be coated. 
An essential functional property of threaded parts with metric ISO standard threads is their 
compliance with specified coefficients of friction. In order to ensure that the coefficients of friction 
comply with VW 011 29, a topcoat with integrated lubricant additive is prescribed for surface 
protection type Ofl-t647, in addition to the base flake coating. 
In the case of screws and bolts, the test requirements listed below only apply to the head and/or 
the wrench bearing surfaces, in the case of nuts, they apply only to the nut body with the exception 
of the thread. For threaded and similar shaped parts, such as studs, the test requirements only 
apply to the face surfaces. 
Reduced requirements (see Sections 3.9 and 3.11.2) apply to process- or geometry-related weak 
spots of coating areas on joining elements and quick fastening elements. 
Prior to coating, threaded parts shall exhibit tolerances corresponding to the coating thickness. 
Metric threaded parts shall preferably be designed according to VW 116 24 (internal threads) or 
VW 116 27 (external threads). After the coating process, the zero line must not be exceeded in the 
case of external threads, and it must not be fallen below in the case of internal threads. 
For further information see VW 011 10, Section 2. 
3.4 
Base coating 
Repeated treatment would be useful to produce an even and opaque coating. It is compulsory for 
barrel coating. 
The coating system’s corrosion protection performance is enhanced by repeated coating. Type and 
number of the coating processes for flake coating should be specified in the drawing if this is 
important for the quality of the basic layer in addition to the specified layer thickness. 
3.5 
Topcoats/lubricant additives 
In order to observe the anti-corrosion requirements and to guarantee the defined coefficients 
of friction, additional system-specific topcoats, optionally with integrated lubricant additive, may 
be used. The topcoats must be coordinated to suit the base coating. They must not cause 
any functional impairment. 
If, in addition to corrosion protection, further functional surface characteristics such as paintability, 
compatibility with other agents, friction properties, threading behavior, vulcanizability or 
temperature behavior are required, part-specific tests or functional tests must be performed. 
3.6 
Base material 
See drawing. 


Page 5 
TL 245: 2004-12 
 
3.7 
Pretreatment 
Principally metallically bright. Alternatively (depending on the coating system) micro-crystalline thin 
layer phosphating (1 to 3 g/m²) is permissible. 
Prior to coating, hot alkaline and/or mechanical cleaning (e.g. abrasive blasting) shall be carried out 
on hardened or high-strength steel parts with a tensile strength > 1,000 MPa. Special treatments 
that could lead to hydrogen absorption are only possible in individual cases upon provision 
of verification of the process management in coordination with the responsible QA laboratory of the 
Volkswagen Group. 
3.8 
Dry film 
Composition, see International Material Data System (IMDS). 
3.9 
Dry coating thickness 
Testing according to DIN EN ISO 1463, DIN EN ISO 2064 and DIN EN ISO 2178; measuring point 
position for threaded parts with metric ISO standard thread according to DIN EN ISO 4042. 
Requirement: minimum coating thickness 8 µm; maximum coating thickness 18 µm. If due to the 
process or geometry, the minimum coating thickness is not achieved, this is permitted as long as 
the corrosion protection and functionality, e.g. threading behavior, are not impaired. 
3.10 
Adhesion 
Adhesive tape with an adhesive strength of (7 ± 1) N per 25 mm width is used for the adhesion test 
acc. to DIN EN ISO 10683. It is firmly pressed onto the specimen surface and then removed with 
a jerk-like motion perpendicular to the surface. There must be no large-area removal of the coating. 
Small particles of the coating that adhere to the tape are permissible. 
3.11 
Corrosion behavior 
3.11.1 
Test according to DIN 50017-KK (only for first-sample test) 
The scribing line is applied on the basis of DIN EN ISO 7253, component dimensions permitting. 
After a test duration of 720 h and evaluation according to DIN EN ISO 4628-3, the following 
minimum requirements must be adhered to at all times: 
 
base metal corrosion on surface: Ri 0, 
 
base metal corrosion permissible in the scribing line, but no rust creep. 


Page 6 
TL 245: 2004-12 
 
3.11.2 
Test according to DIN 50021 SS 
General requirements (not for Ofl-t610 and barrel-coated goods with thread): 
 
no base metal corrosion (Ri 0) after a test duration of 720 h without thermal conditioning, 
 
no base metal corrosion (Ri 0) after a test duration of 480 h with thermal conditioning 
for 96 h at +180 °C (for Ofl-t611: +200 °C). 
Deviating requirement for Ofl-t610: 
 
no base metal corrosion (Ri 0) after a test duration of 480 h without thermal conditioning. 
Deviating requirements for barrel-coated goods with thread (see also Section 3.3): 
 
no base metal corrosion (Ri 0) after a test duration of 600 h without thermal conditioning, 
 
no base metal corrosion (Ri 0) after a test duration of 480 h with thermal conditioning 
for 96 h at +180 °C (for Ofl-t611: +200 °C). 
3.12 
Resistance to chemicals (only for first-sample test) 
Testing according to VDA1) 621-412 in the following media: 
 
FAM test fuel according to VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.1 Y, 
 
Diesel fuel according to TL 788 and VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.2 X, 
 
Biodiesel (FAME) according to DIN EN 14214 and VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.2 X, 
 
Premium unleaded gasoline according to DIN EN 228 and test according to VDA 621-412, 
test A 4.1.3 Y, 
 
Factory-fill engine oil according to TL 521 73 (Burmah Castrol Oil code A97075PBC) and 
VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.4 X, 
 
Hydraulic fluid according to TL 521 46 and VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.6 X, 
 
Automatic transmission fluid according to TL 521 62 and VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.7 X, 
 
Coolant according to TL 774 and VDA 621-412, test A 4.2.2 X. 
A surface change is not permitted (max. characteristic value 1 according to DIN EN ISO 4628-1). 
Additionally, tests are performed in the following medium: 
 
Brake fluid according to TL 766 and VDA 621-412, test A 4.2.1 X. 
The following requirement applies to this medium: swellings that have returned to normal 
after 24 h are permitted. 
For small parts, test B must be used instead of test A. Small parts can be submersed completely 
and compared with a new part from the same manufacturing batch. 
4 
Referenced standards2) 
TL 766 
Brake Fluid; Material Requirements 
TL 774 
Ethylene Glycol-Based Coolant Additive; Material Requirements 
TL 788 
Dieselkraftstoff, Kraftstoffanforderungen (currently only available in German) 
TL 521 46 
Central Hydraulic System Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 521 62 
Factory-Fill-for-Life Automatic Transmission Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 521 65 
Lubricant (Greenish) for Threaded Fasteners; Material Requirements 
TL 521 73 
Factory Fill Engine Oil SAE 0W-30 with Fuel-Saving Properties for 
Extended Oil Change Intervals; Requirement, Testing 
                                                
1) 
VDA = German Association of the Automotive Industry 
2)  In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 


Page 7 
TL 245: 2004-12 
 
VW 010 43 
Multipoint Socket Profile; Drive Shape for Threaded Parts 
VW 010 48 
Round Hexagon Socket; Drive Shape for Threaded Parts 
VW 011 10 
Threaded Joints; Design, Assembly and Process Assurance 
VW 011 29 
Limit Values for Coefficients of Friction; Mechanical Joining Elements with 
Metric ISO Thread 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 116 24 
Metric ISO Thread; Limit Dimensions for Tolerance Class 6f/6G 
VW 116 27 
Thread Limit Dimensions for External Threads of Tolerance Class 6e; Metric 
ISO Threads 
VW 137 50 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Degrees of Protection, Codes, 
Requirements 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
VDA 621-412 
Anstrichtechnische 
Prüfungen; 
Chemikalienbeständigkeit 
von 
Kraftfahrzeug-Lackierungen (Tests for Coating Methods; Resistance to 
Chemicals of Motor Vehicle Paints; only available in German) 
DIN 50017 
Atmospheres and their Technical Application; Condensation Water Test 
Atmospheres 
DIN 50021 
Spray Tests with Different Sodium Chloride Solutions 
DIN EN 228 
Automotive Fuels – Unleaded Petrol – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 14214 
Automotive Fuels – Fatty Acid Methyl Esters (FAME) for Diesel Engines – 
Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN ISO 1463 
Metallic and Oxide Coatings – Measurement of Coating Thickness – 
Microscopical Method 
DIN EN ISO 2064 
Metallic and Other Non-Organic Coatings – Definitions and Conventions 
Concerning the Measurement of Thickness 
DIN EN ISO 2178 
Non-Magnetic Coatings on Magnetic Substrates – Measurement of Coating 
Thickness – Magnetic Method 
DIN EN ISO 4042 
Fasteners – Electroplated Coatings 
DIN EN ISO 4628-1 
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings – 
Designation of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform 
Changes in Appearance – Part 1: General Introduction and Designation 
System 
DIN EN ISO 4628-3 
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings – 
Designation of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform 
Changes in Appearance – Part 3: Assessment of Degree of Rusting 
DIN EN ISO 4757 
Cross Recesses for Screws 
DIN EN ISO 7253 
Paints and Varnishes – Determination of Resistance to Neutral Salt Spray 
(Fog) 
DIN EN ISO 10683 
Fasteners – Non-Electrolytically Applied Zinc Flake Coatings 
 


Page 8 
TL 245: 2004-12 
 
Appendix A (informative) 
A.1 
Released surface protection systems 
A.1.1 
Ofl-t602 
Any system, e.g.: 
DELTA-PROTEKT KL100 + DELTA-PROTEKT VH300 
GEOMET 321 PLUS 10 
A.1.2 
Ofl-t610 
DELTA-TONE 9000 
A.1.3 
Ofl-t611 
DELTA-PROTEKT KL100 + DELTA-PROTEKT VH300 
A.1.4 
Ofl-t615 
DELTA-TONE 9000 + lubricant (greenish) according to TL 521 65 
A.1.5 
Ofl-t647 
Any system. 
However, for joining elements only: 
DELTA-PROTEKT KL100 + DELTA-PROTEKT VH301GZ  
GEOMET 321 PLUS VL  
