# TL256.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 23 2 
August 2004 
Powder Paint on Metal Surfaces 
Requirements for Surface Protection 
TL 
256 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
powder paint, surface protection, corrosion protection, paint, paintwork 
 
Page   
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32 
Große 
Tel: -28506 
Laudien 
Dr. Eisenberg 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 256, 1999-06: 
 
Type A changed to surface protection type Ofl-x651 
 
Type B removed (replacement is TL 524 51) 
 
Specifications for pretreatment changed (Table 2, No. 4) 
 
Salt spray fog test removed 
 
Specifications for the corrosion cycle test changed (Table 2, No. 8.1) 
 
Referenced standards updated 
 
Standard restructured 
Previous issues 
1974-10; 1993-09; 1999-06 
1 
Scope 
This standard specifies the requirements for powder paints on pretreated components. It does not 
apply to decorative surfaces (see TL 524 51) or aluminum wheels (see TL 239). 
2 
Designation 
According to Volkswagen standard VW 137 50, Section 2. 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
Protection types 
The surface protection types listed in Table 1 shall apply. 
Table 1 
Protection type 
Design 
Ofl-x650 
heavy protection with film- or layer-forming pretreatment 
Ofl-x651 
especially heavy protection with film or layer-forming pretreatment and 
primer coat (use in the visible area, for example) 
 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 256: 2004-08 
 
3.2 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
Ten parts are required for complete testing. 
3.3 
Weak spots 
Weak spots are edges of an area that was mechanically worked after coating for design reasons 
(in a zone of max. 2.5 mm width, starting from the edge of the unpainted surface). 
3.4 
Appearance 
The parts shall exhibit a uniform appearance on their entire surface, according to drawing and 
released sample. Pores, coarse cracks, and other flaws or damage that adversely affect 
the specified appearance are not permissible. The coating shall have firm adherence to the 
base material. 
3.5 
Further properties 
See Table 2. 
Table 2 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
 
 
Ofl-x650 
Ofl-x651 
1 
Base material 
see drawing 
2 
IR spectrum of the powder paint 
acc. to sample * 
3 
Degree of glossiness 
degree of glossiness according to original 
sample or drawing specification 
4 
Pretreatment and primer coat 
4.1 
Steel 
zinc phosphated 
zinc phosphated 
and primed 
4.2 
Zinc 
passivated 
passivated  
and primed 
4.3 
Aluminum 
passivated 
passivated  
and primed 
4.4 
Copper 
- 
primed 
5 
Coating thickness 
5.1 
Primer coat 
- 
25 ± 5 µm 
5.2 
Powder paint 
 60 µm 
6 
Adhesion and brittleness 
(crosscut test acc. to DIN EN ISO 2409) 
Gt 0 to 1 
7 
Resistance to stone impact 
acc. to DIN 55996-1 
max. characteristic value 1 
* The IR samples must be presented by the supplier during the first sample tests. 
 
 


Page 3 
TL 256: 2004-08 
 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
8 
Corrosion behavior 
8.1 
Corrosion cycle test 1) 
no blisters, no corrosion of base metal;
adhesion loss D  2.5 mm, but never > 5 mm 
8.2 
Test 
in 
the 
moisture-condensate 
constant climate 2) 
no blisters, no corrosion of base metal; the 
requirements of Section 3.5 and Table 2, No. 6 
must be fulfilled 
9 
Temperature resistance (temperature cycle test) 
9.1 
Aging at elevated temperature 3) 
9.2 
Aging at low temperature 4) 
requirements of Section 3.5 and Table 2, No. 6 
must be fulfilled 
10 
Impact test at low temperature 5) 
no chipping and no cracks of the coating; impact 
shall not reach base material 6) 
11 
Resistance to chemicals 7) 
11.1 
Premium unleaded gasoline  
acc. to DIN EN 228 
11.2 
Diesel fuel acc. to DIN EN 590 
11.3 
Respectively 
released 
sealant 
and 
sealant remover 
max. characteristic value 1 
1) 
60 cycles according to Test Specification PV 1210 with scribing line according to DIN EN ISO 7253, Section 8.5. Evaluation 
according to DIN EN ISO 4628-8. 
2) 
Test according to DIN 50017-KK, test duration 240 h; the specimens are then acclimatized for at least 30 minutes at (18 to 28) °C. 
3) 
240 h aging in the mechanical circulation oven at (+90 + 2) °C; the specimens are then acclimatized for at least 30 minutes 
at +(18 to 28) °C. 
4) 
After aging at elevated temperature (Table 2, No. 9.1), the same specimens are aged at low temperatures for 24 h at (-40 + 3) °C; 
next the specimens are acclimatized for at least 30 min at (+18 to 28) °C. Afterwards, these same specimens are tested according 
to Table 2, No. 10. 
5) 
Impact test after 24 h aging at (-40 + 3) °C on the basis of DIN EN ISO 4532, but with a specified test force of 90 N on 
a rigid substrate. 
6) 
In the case of stabilizers, impacts of up to 3 mm in diameter which extend down to the base material and are caused by the test 
method are permitted. 
7) 
Test according to VDA test sheet 621-412, test A; evaluation according to DIN EN ISO 4628-1, Table 3. 
 


Page 4 
TL 256: 2004-08 
 
4 
Referenced standards*) 
PV 1210 
Body and Add-on Parts; Corrosion Test 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 137 50 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Degrees of Protection, Codes, 
Requirements 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
VDA 621-412 
Anstrichtechnische Prüfungen, Chemikalienbeständigkeit von Kraftfahrzeug-
Lackierungen (Tests for Coating Methods, Resistance to Chemicals of 
Automotive Paints – only available in German) 
DIN 50017 
Atmospheres and Their Technical Application; Condensation Water Test 
Atmospheres 
DIN 55996-1 
Paints and Varnishes – Stone Chip Resistance Test for Coatings – Part 1: 
Multi Impact Test 
DIN EN 228 
Automotive Fuels – Unleaded Petrol – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 590 
Automotive Fuels – Diesel – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN ISO 4532 
Vitreous and Porcelain Enamels – Determination of the Resistance 
of Enameled Articles to Impact – Pistol Test 
DIN EN ISO 2409 
Paints and Varnishes – Cross-Cut Test 
DIN EN ISO 4628-1 Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings – Designation 
of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform Changes in 
Appearance – Part 1: General Introduction and Designation System 
DIN EN ISO 4628-8 Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings; Designation 
of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform Changes in 
Appearance – Part 8: Evaluation of Corrosion around a Scribe 
DIN EN ISO 7253 
Paints and Varnishes – Determination of Resistance to Neutral Salt 
Spray (Fog) 
                                                
*) 
In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
