# TL260.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 23 4 
May 2004 
Paint Coating of Metal Surfaces 
Requirements for Surface Protection 
TL 
260 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
surface protection, corrosion protection, paint, metal surface 
 
Page 1 of 4 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32 
Koeppen 
Tel: -25803 
Laudien 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The 
following 
changes 
have 
been 
made 
as 
compared 
to 
Technical 
Supply 
Specification TL 260, 1995-09: 
─ 
Standard restructured 
─ 
Referenced standards updated 
─ 
Ban on chromium (VI) and lead 
─ 
Changed requirements for weak points 
Previous issues 
1975-08; 1980-06; 1985-05; 1986-12; 1994-02; 1995-09 
1 
Scope 
This standard defines requirements for corrosion protection of black paint coatings on metal 
surfaces (code letter x in Volkswagen standard VW 137 50), e.g., for body parts. It does not apply 
to paint coatings on zinc-coated metal surfaces (see TL 227), to decorative protective varnishes 
(see TL 218) or to paint coatings on chassis parts that may form cavities (see TL 262). 
2 
Designation 
See VW 137 50, Section 2. 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
Protection types 
The protection types listed in Table 1 apply. 
Table 1  
Protection type 
Characteristic 
Ofl-x010 
Commercial paintwork, permissible only after agreement with 
the Central Laboratory at Volkswagen AG (K-QS-32) and/or 
the Test Laboratory at Audi AG (I/GQ-32) and the responsible 
Design Engineering Department; 
no corrosion protection requirements. 
Ofl-x100, Ofl-x300, Ofl-x600 
Pretreatment not specified (not possible for manufacturing 
reasons), 
single-layer liquid paint according to any method, alternatively 
cathodic dip paint. 
Ofl-x130, Ofl-x330 
Zinc phosphated, Fe or Mn phosphated, 
single-layer liquid paint according to any method, alternatively 
cathodic dip paint. 
Ofl-x630 
Zinc phosphated, cathodic dip paint. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 260: 2004-05 
 
Protection type 
Characteristic 
Ofl-x631 
Zinc phosphated, dual layer painted (dip + spray painting) 
Ofl-x634 
Zinc phosphated, heavy coat cathodic dip paint or cathodic dip paint 
+ conventional dip paint (for very highly stressed parts, e.g., front 
end, engine compartment) 
3.2 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
Eight parts or part sections are required for complete testing. 
The coatings used must be free of compounds containing chromium(VI) or lead.  
3.3 
Base material 
Material according to drawing 
3.4 
Protection types/appearance 
See Table 1. The color is always black unless otherwise specified in the drawing. 
3.5 
Conditioning 
If air-drying coating systems are used and/or no paint system baking process at elevated 
temperature (> 60 °C) will be carried out, the components shall be conditioned for 24 h at 60 °C 
before the tests. The specimens are then cooled to room temperature (18 to 28) °C according to 
DIN 50014. 
3.6 
Paint coat thickness 
See Table 2. For joining and contact surfaces, paint coat thickness limits may be necessary which 
are to be specified in the drawing. 
Table 2 
Protection type 
Paint coat thickness in µm 
Ofl-x100, Ofl-x130, Ofl-x300, Ofl-x330, Ofl-x600
15 to 50 (for liquid paint) 
 
> 12 (for cathodic dip paint) 
Ofl-x630 
15 to 35, in cavities ≥ 12 
Ofl-x631 
40 to 60 
Ofl-x634 
35 to 60, in cavities ≥ 20 
3.7 
Adhesion and brittleness 
Crosscut test according to DIN EN ISO 2409. Requirement: characteristic value 0 to 1. 
3.8 
Resistance to stone impact 
Test according to DIN 55996-1, method B with visual examination. Requirement: ≤ characteristic value 2. 


Page 3 
TL 260: 2004-05 
 
3.9 
Further characteristics 
See Table 3. 
Table 3  
No. 
Property 
Ofl-x100 
Ofl-x130 
Ofl-x300 
Ofl-x330
Ofl-x600 
Ofl-x630 
Ofl-x631 
Ofl-x634 
1 
Corrosion behavior 1) 
1.1 
After aging in salt spray fog according to DIN 50021-SS 
1.1.1 48 h without 
scribe mark 2) 
no blisters, no base 
metal corrosion 
- 
1.1.2 96 h without 
scribe mark 2) 
- 
no blisters, no base 
metal corrosion 
- 
1.1.3 240 h with scribe 
mark 2) 
- 
no blisters, 
no base 
metal 
corrosion, 
adhesion loss 
D ≤ 2.5 mm 
- 
1.2 
After corrosion cycle test according to Test Specification PV 1210 
1.2.1 5 cycles 
- 
surface, including edges, free of base metal corrosion 
1.2.2 30 cycles with 
scribe mark 2) 
- 
no blisters, no base metal corrosion, 
adhesion loss D  ≤ 2.5 mm 
- 
1.2.3 60 cycles with 
scribe mark 2) 
- 
no blisters, 
no base metal 
corrosion, 
adhesion loss 
D ≤ 2.5 mm 
1.3 
After aging in moisture condensate constant climate DIN 50017-KK 
1.3.1 72 h 3) 
no blisters, no base 
metal corrosion, the 
requirement according 
to Section 3.7 must be 
fulfilled 
- 
1.3.2 144 h 3) 
- 
no blisters, no base 
metal corrosion, the 
requirement according 
to Section 3.7 must be 
fulfilled 
- 
1.3.3 240 h 3) 
- 
no blisters, no base metal corrosion, the requirement 
according to Section 3.7 must be fulfilled 
2 
Resistance to chemicals acc. to VDA 621-412, test A, evaluation according to DIN EN ISO 4628-1, Table 3, with respect to 
2.1 
Premium 
unleaded gasoline 
acc. to  
DIN EN 228 
- 
max. characteristic value 2, but max. characteristic 
value 1 after 5 h resting period 
max. characteristic value 1 
2.2 
Diesel fuel acc. to 
DIN EN 590 
- 
max. characteristic value 2, but max. characteristic 
value 1 after 5 h resting period 
max. characteristic value 1 
2.3 
Factory-fill engine 
oil acc. to  
TL 521 07,  
1 h at 23 °C 4) 
- 
max. characteristic value 2, but max. characteristic 
value 1 after 5 h resting period 
max. characteristic value 1 
2.4 
Central hydraulic 
system fluid 
acc. to TL 521 46 
- 
max. characteristic value 2, but max. characteristic 
value 1 after 5 h resting period 
max. characteristic value 1 
2.5 
Brake fluid 
acc. to TL 766 5) 
- 
max. characteristic value 2, but max. characteristic value 1 after 5 h resting period 
2.6 
Coolant acc. to TL 774, type C 
2.6.1 1 h at 23 °C 4) 
- 
max. characteristic value 2, but max. characteristic value 1 after 5 h resting period 
2.6.2 24 h at 80 °C 6) 
- 
characteristic value 0 
1) The requirements of the next protection class down apply to surface areas on weld seams and design-related contact surfaces, 
including an adjacent zone of max. 2.5 mm starting from the weak point (surface/weld seam free of paint). 
2) Scribe mark acc. to DIN EN ISO 7253, Section 8.5 and DIN EN ISO 4628-8 
3) Then at least 30 min acclimatization at room temperature 
4) For engine compartment parts only 
5) For brake system parts only 
6) For parts carrying coolant only 


Page 4 
TL 260: 2004-05 
 
4 
Referenced standards*) 
PV 1210 
Body and Add-On Parts; Corrosion Test 
TL 766 
Brake Fluid; Material Requirements 
TL 774 
Ethylene Glycol-Based Coolant Additive; Material Requirements 
TL 521 07 
SAE 15W-40 Factory Fill Engine Oil; Lubricant Requirements 
TL 521 46 
Central Hydraulic System Fluid; Lubricant Requirements 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 137 50 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Degrees of Protection, Codes, 
Requirements 
VW 911 01 
Vehicle Environmental Standard; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids; 
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
VDA 621-412 
Tests for Coating Methods; Resistance to Chemicals of Motor Vehicle 
Paints (only available in German) 
DIN 50014 
Climates and Their Technical Application; Standard Atmospheres 
DIN 50017 
Climates and Their Technical Application; Condensation Water Test  
 
Atmospheres 
DIN 50021 
Spray Tests with Different Sodium Chloride Solutions 
DIN 55996-1 
Paints and Varnishes; Stone Chip Resistance Test for Coatings; Part 1: 
Multi Impact Test 
DIN EN 228 
Automotive Fuels – Unleaded Petrol – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN 590 
Automotive Fuels – Diesel – Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN ISO 2409 
Paints and Varnishes; Cross-Cut Test 
DIN EN ISO 4628-1 
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings– Designation 
of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform Changes in 
Appearance – Part 1: General Introduction and Designation System 
DIN EN ISO 4628-8 
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings; Designation 
of Quantity and Size of Defects and of Intensity of Uniform Changes in 
Appearance – Part 8: Evaluation of Corrosion Around a Scribe 
DIN EN ISO 7253 
Paints and Varnishes; Determination of Resistance to Neutral Salt Spray 
(Fog)  
                                                
*) In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
 
