# TL261.pdf

Klass.-Nr. / Class. No. 50 24 1 
December 2005 
Painting on Coil Springs 
Surface Protection Requirements 
TL 261 
Konzernnorm 
4 Types: A, B, C, D 
 
Key words: 
paint, painting, paint finish, coil spring 
 
Continued on pages 2 to 2 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-GQL-2/2 
Grosse 
Tel: +49-5361-9-34967 
Laudien 
Dr. Eisenberg 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.05 
Form FE 41 - 01.05 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification TL 261: 
2003-09: 
─ 
Table 1: footnote changed 
─ 
Technical responsibility updated 
Previous issues 
1976-11; 1977-12; 1987-10; 1992-05; 2003-09 
1 
Scope 
This Technical Supply Specification (TL standard) defines the requirements for surface protection 
for paint finishes on coil springs for the front and rear axle suspension, in four types. 
2 
Description 
Paint coating according to TL 261, type A (for example) 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
The required minimum for complete testing is 4 coil springs. 
The paint coating shall be free of pores, cracks and foreign matter inclusions that impair 
the corrosion protection. The coating shall adhere firmly to the base material. The production 
process and its control shall not impair the functional characteristics of the finished part. 
3.2 
Structure and layer thickness 
See Table 1. 
3.3 
Corrosion resistance 
Thirty cycles are tested in the corrosion cycle test (3-phase test) according to PV 1210. Corrosion 
on the ends of the coil springs up to 2.5 mm from the edge and on the 1st turn of the suspension 
are not taken into consideration. Coil springs that are equipped with a damping hose are tested 
with the hose. 
Requirements: base metal corrosion max. Ri 1. Bubble formation is not permitted. Scribing line 
according to DIN EN ISO 7253, section 8.5, and DIN EN ISO 4628-8: adhesion loss D ≤ 0.10 in. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 261: 2005-12 
 
Table 1 – Structure and layer thickness 
 
Type A 
Type B 
Type C 
Type D 
Pretreatment 
Iron or zinc 
phosphated 
Zinc phosphated 
Shot-peened and 
zinc phosphated 
Paintwork 
Primer (yellow) 
and dip paint 
EC paint, 
anodic dip paint 
EC paint, 
heavy coat 
cathodic dip paint
Powder paint 1) 
Coating 
thickness 
> 40 µm 
> 30 µm 
30 to 50 µm 
60 to 160 µm 
1) The painting hook’s suspension point must be positioned in the untreated area up to a max. 180° sta rting at the end of the spring. 
 
3.4 
Behavior at low temperatures (only for types C and D) 
Test: 24 h aging at (-40 ± 3)°C. After completion o f the aging period, an impact test based 
on DIN ISO 4532 (with 90 N test force on a rigid base plate) is performed at low temperature. 
Requirement: No chipping and no cracks in paint coating. Impacts of up to 0.12 in. Ø down to the 
base material are permissible. 
4 
Referenced standards 1) 
PV 1210 
Body and Add-On Parts; Corrosion Test 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN ISO 4532 
Vitreous and Porcelain Enamels - Determination of the Resistance 
of Enameled Articles to Impact - Pistol Test 
DIN EN ISO 4628-8 
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings; Designation 
of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform Changes 
in Appearance – Part 8: Evaluation of Corrosion around a Scribe 
DIN EN ISO 7253 
Paints and Varnishes – Determination of Resistance to Neutral Salt Spray 
(Fog) 
 
                                                
1) In this section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
