# TL265.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 22 3
November 1997
Duplex coating for pipes
Requirements
TL
265
Konzernnorm
Continued on pages 2 to 4
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
I/EG-35
I/GQ-32
I/EK-P  Dr. Helm Tel: +49-5361-9
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung einer Normenabteilung des Volkswagen Konzerns nicht gestattet.
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung.
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 12.00
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to the March 1992 issue:
• 
Section 4,
2nd paragraph
• 
Section 5.2,
Coating thickness changed from ≥ 15 µm to ≥ 8 µm
• 
Section 5.3,
1st paragraph equivalent added, explanation in parentheses added
• 
Section 6.2,
Tests according to DIN 50 018 and DIN 50 021 deleted; requirements for test-
ing according to PV 1210 redefined
• 
Page 3, 
Footnotes 1) and 2) added
Previous issues
First issue:  12.89
Last change:  03.92
1 
Basic supply requirements
Approval of first supply and changes acc. to VW 011 55.
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 00 ff.
2 
General
2.1 
Scope
Corrosion protection coating on pipes that carry such media as oil, water, fuel, etc.
Note:
Sealing surfaces, face surfaces of ring pieces and surfaces, which come in contact with the media
flowing through the pipe during operation must not have organic coatings. Exceptions are possible
only with a release from the appropriate test department.
2.2 
Type
Duplex system consisting of a zinc alloy or zinc/nickel alloy coating, a conversion or primer treat-
ment matched to this coating and an organic top coat, on, for example, an epoxy resin base.
Note:
The coating methods and materials to be applied must be agreed upon with the AUDI AG test labo-
ratory or the VW AG Wolfsburg central laboratory prior to their use.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2
TL 265: 1997-11
3 
General coating requirements
The coating must be free of flaws and excess material.
Isolated pinpoint or linear damage will be tolerated only on pressed sleeves, but flaking of the or-
ganic top coat as a result of contact with the tools cannot be tolerated.
The coating must have no adverse effects on the functional characteristics of the finished part.
No damage to the coating must occur during proper assembly.
4 
Coating during the production process
The coating can be applied at any point during the production process after all required soldering or
welding operations are completely finished.
If a pipe must be bent after the coating has been applied, this must be done immediately following
the coating process, directly after which tests must be performed to ensure that the coating was not
damaged. Documentation that there has been no damage must be provided by means of the cor-
rosion test under section 6.2; a visual test is not sufficient. A decrease in the corrosion protection
along the bending radius is not permitted.
Changes to the production process that affect the timing of the coating process or a different pro-
cedure after the coating must be indicated and will require a new first sampling.
5 
Coating structure
5.1 
Coating parts
Steel tube with armatures or brackets welded or brazed onto it.
5.2 
Zinc coating
Electrolytic zinc coating acc. to TL 217, coating thickness ≥ 8 µm.
A zinc-nickel coating acc. to TL 244 is also possible by special agreement.
An electrolyte with the lowest possible amount of brighteners must be used to ensure optimal ad-
hesion.
5.3 
Pretreatment
After the zinc coating and prior to the coating process, zinc phosphating or an equivalent primer
treatment must be applied. This treatment may also be applied to surfaces that must remain free of
organic coatings.
Chromating reduces the adhesion of the coating and is not permitted as a pretreatment. (It is per-
missible with a zinc-nickel coating).
The pretreatment must be applied immediately prior to the coating process.
No direct organic coating of the bright zinc layer is permissible.
5.4 
Organic top coat
Organic coating
thickness ≥ 20 µm,
Powder paint
thickness ≥ 50 µm
in burnt-in state. Fluorinated polymer content is possible.
It must be clarified on a case-by-case basis whether an organic coating may be applied to any
threads that may be present.
Flaws in the pipe coating around the union nuts are not permitted.


Page 3
TL 265: 1997-11
5.5 
Post-treatment
After coating, suitable measures must be taken to ensure that no corrosion can form inside the pipe
prior to assembly.
6 
Physical properties
6.1 
Adhesive strength and brittleness
6.1.1 
Crosscut test acc. to DIN EN ISO 2409,
The requirements of crosscut test characteristic value 0 must be met.
6.1.2 
Tape test
Permissible only for pipes on which the test found in section 6.1.1 cannot be performed because
their diameter is too small.
No part of the top coat may adhere to the adhesive tape during the tape test.
The tape test is performed as follows: after making an x-shaped cut on a straight section of pipe, a
piece of adhesive tape with an adhesive strength of 3 N/cm of width (e.g., Tesaband 541, 651) is
applied to the cut and removed with a jerk-like motion perpendicular to the specimen surface.
6.2 
Corrosion behavior
6.2.1 
Test 240 h DIN 50 017-KK
No blisters or other type of loosening;
No base metal or zinc corrosion;
The requirements under section 6.1.1 must be met.
6.2.2 
Testing acc. to PV 1210
No blisters, no base metal corrosion, optical changes (gray cast 1)) permissible; the requirements
under section 6.1.1 must be met.
Pipe sections with no scribing 
30 cycles
Add-on parts 2) 
10 cycles
1)
The “gray cast”, as it is called, can appear early on; this slight optical change to the coating
must not adversely affect the corrosion protection.
2)
Add-on parts include ring pieces, union nuts, threaded pins and various brackets, among other
things, which are used with the pipe sections in the ASSY.


Page 4
TL 265: 1997-11
6.3 
Resistance to chemicals
Testing acc. to VDA test sheet 621-412: Test B with test duration according to Test A.
Tests 6.3.1 to 6.3.9 must be performed with the complete coating structure and on areas that are
treated with primer only acc. to sections 5.3 and 5.4.
6.3.1 
FAM test fluid acc. to DIN 51 604-A (= Part 1 of the standard)
6.3.2 
Diesel fuel acc. to DIN EN 590
6.3.3 
Factory-fill engine oil acc. to TL 521 07
6.3.4 
Automatic transmission fluid acc. to TL 521 62
6.3.5 
Brake fluid acc. to TL 766
6.3.6 
Coolant acc. to TL 774, 50%
6.3.7 
Hydraulic fluid acc. to TL 521 46
6.3.8 
Shipping wax (the type that is currently released must be used)
6.3.9 
Dewaxing (the type that is currently released must be used)
6.3.10 
In addition, with the exception of pipes for gasoline with a special medium, for
which the appropriate pipe is given, 16 h of testing must be performed at elevated
temperatures. The test temperature must correspond to the max. operating tem-
perature of the medium and is defined on a case-by-case basis by the test labora-
tory together with the relevant test department. If none is specified, 100° C shall be
used as the elevated test temperature.
7 
Referenced standards
TL 217
Zinc coating
TL 244
Zinc / nickel alloy coatings
TL 766
Brake fluid
TL 774
Coolant additive to an ethylene glycol base
TL 521 07
Factory-fill engine oil SAE 15W-40
TL 521 46
Central hydraulic system fluid
TL 521 62
Initial break-in operation, service life, automatic transmission fluid
PV 1210
Bodywork, corrosion test
VW 011 55
Vehicle supply parts – general
VW 911 00
Environmental standard for vehicles; vehicle parts, materials, operating
fluids, policy, specifications
DIN 50 017
Condensed water test climates
DIN 51 604-1
FAM test fluid for polymer materials, composition and requirements
DIN EN 590
Diesel fuel, minimum requirements and test methods
DIN EN ISO 2409
Paints and varnishes, crosscut test
VDA 621-412
Tests for coating methods, resistance to chemicals of automotive paints
