# TL262.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 24 1 
April 2004 
Cavity-Forming Chassis Parts 
Corrosion Protection 
TL 
262 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
corrosion protection, chassis, sub frame, track control arm 
 
Page 1 of 3 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32 
Koeppen 
Tel: -25803 
Laudien 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-929064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 262, 2001-07: 
─ 
Note for restricted usage removed 
─ 
Standard restructured 
─ 
Changed requirements for weak spots 
Previous issues 
1982-09; 1984-09; 2001-07 
1 
Scope 
This standard defines the requirements for corrosion protection on internal and external surfaces of 
chassis parts such as sub-frames and track control arms that may exhibit cavities. It does not apply 
to surface protection for add-on and body parts. 
2 
Designation 
Corrosion protection according to TL 262 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
The required minimum for complete testing is two parts. 
3.2 
Base material 
According to drawing. 
3.3 
Layer structure 
See Table 1. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 262: 2004-04 
 
Table 1 – Layer structure 
No. 
Property 
Heavy coat cathodic dip paint 
1 
Pretreatment 
Zinc phosphating (applied by means of immersion) 
2 
Top coat 
Heavy coat cathodic dip paint, dual layer system with 
additional conventional dip paint permissible upon agreement 
3 
Color 
Black or according to drawing 
4 
Coating thickness (µm) 1) 
4.1 
Inside surface 
≥ 20 
4.2 
Outside surface 
35 to 60 
1) 
Coating thickness limitations may be necessary with joining or contact surfaces; these shall be specified in the drawing. 
 
3.4 
Adhesion and brittleness 
Crosscut test according to DIN EN ISO 2409. Requirement: ≤ characteristic value 1. 
3.5 
Conditioning 
If air-drying coating systems are used and/or the paint system is not baked at increased 
temperatures (> 60° C), the components shall be conditioned for 24 h at 60 °C before the tests and 
then cooled to room temperature (18 to 28) °C according to DIN 50014. 
3.6 
Corrosion resistance 
3.6.1 
Corrosion cycle test 
Test according to Test Specification PV 1210 with scribing line according to DIN EN ISO 7253, 
Section 8.5. Evaluation according to DIN EN ISO 4628-8. 
The requirements apply to component edges (5 cycles) and component surface (60 cycles). 
Surface areas on welds and design-related contact surfaces including an adjacent zone of max. 
2.5 mm starting from the weak point (unpainted surface/weld) shall be excluded from the 
requirements. 
─ 
After 5 cycles: Component edges free of base metal corrosion 
─ 
After 60 cycles: Inside and outside surfaces free of base metal corrosion. Adhesion loss D of 
the applied scribing line ≤ 2.5 mm. 
3.6.2 
Moisture-condensate constant climate 
Test according to DIN 50017-KK, test duration 240 h and subsequent acclimatization of the 
specimens to room temperature. 
Requirements: 
─ 
No blistering 
─ 
No base metal corrosion 
─ 
Crosscut test according to DIN EN ISO 2409: ≤ characteristic value 1. 


Page 3 
TL 262: 2004-04 
 
3.7 
Resistance to stone impact 
Test according to DIN 55996-1, method B with visual evaluation. Requirement: ≤ characteristic 
value 2. 
3.8 
Resistance to chemicals 
Test according to VDA 621-412, A. Evaluation according to DIN EN ISO 4628-1, Table 3. 
Test fluid: brake fluid according to TL 766. 
Requirement: max. characteristic value 2, but max. value 1 after 5 h resting period. 
4 
Referenced standards*) 
PV 1210 
Body and Add-On Parts; Corrosion Test 
TL 766 
Brake Fluid; Material Requirements 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 911 01 
Vehicle Environmental Standard; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids; 
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
VDA 621-412 
Anstrichtechnische 
Prüfungen; 
Chemikalienbeständigkeit 
von 
Kraftfahrzeug-Lackierungen (Tests for Coating Methods; Resistance to 
Chemicals of Automotive Paints – only available in German) 
DIN 50014 
Climates and their Technical Application; Standard Atmospheres 
DIN 50017 
Atmospheres and their Technical Application; Condensation Water Test 
Atmospheres 
DIN 53230 
Testing of Paints, Varnishes and Similar Coating Materials; Rating Scheme 
for the Evaluation of Tests 
DIN 55996-1 
Paints and Varnishes – Stone Chip Resistance Test for Coatings – Part 1: 
Multi Impact Test 
DIN EN ISO 2409  
Paints and Varnishes, Cross-Cut Test 
DIN EN ISO 4628-1 
Paints and Varnishes - Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings - Designation 
of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform Changes in 
Appearance – Part 1: General Introduction and Designation System 
DIN EN ISO 4628-8 
Paints and Varnishes - Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings – Designation 
of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform Changes in 
Appearance – Part 8: Evaluation of Corrosion around a Scribe 
DIN EN ISO 7253 
Paints and Varnishes – Determination of Resistance to Neutral Salt Spray 
(Fog) 
                                                
*) In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
 
