# TL496.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No 55 35 1 
February 2003 
Door and Side Trim Panel ASSY 
Material Requirements 
TL 
496 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
door trim panel, side trim panel 
D
 
Page 1 of 8 
Fachverantwortung/Technical Responsibility 
Normung/Standards Dept. (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-31 
Peters 
Tel.: -28120 
Hager-Süß Tel.: +49-5361-9-49035 
Sobanski 
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung einer Normenabteilung des Volkswagen Konzerns nicht gestattet. 
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung. 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification TL 496: 
2001-06: 
─ 
Emission behavior and scratch resistance changed 
Previous issues 
1974-07, 1988-08, 1989-11, 1995-10, 2001-06 
1 
Scope 
This Technical Supply Specification (TL) specifies the material requirements for door trim panels 
and side trim panels ready for installation. 
2 
Description 
Door trim panel acc. to TL 496 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 01155. 
Emission behavior according to VW 50180. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 91101. 
A minimum of five vehicle sets per trim color of door and side trim panels are required for complete 
testing. Quantities deviating from this shall be agreed upon by the responsible test laboratories. 
3.2 
Appearance 
The substrate of the ASSY parts shall exhibit a structure of generally uniform density; flaking, chip-
ping and soft areas are not permissible.  For injection-molded parts, streaks due to pre-damaged 
material and air burns are not permissible.  
The surface characteristics of the substrate shall ensure uniform, durable adhesive bonding to foils 
and planar fabrics and, if required, shall ensure high-frequency weldability. 
 
Edges of punched and cut areas must be clean and free of burrs in order to ensure proper installa-
tion of the parts (fringing and/or flaking is not permissible).  The laminated trim parts must maintain 
their dimensional and functional integrity during transport, storage, assembly, and subsequent use 
in the temperature range from (-40 ºC to +90 ºC) (up to + 100 °C for the upper edge molding) as 
well as under climatic conditions of +55 ºC and 95% relative humidity. 
 
The English translation is believed to be accurate.In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
Numerical notation according to ISO practice (see VW 01000). 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 496: 2003-02 
D 
3.3 
Physiological compatibility 
The materials used for the trim panel ASSY shall be physiologically safe and shall, for example, not 
induce skin irritation or objectionable odors (e.g., formaldehyde, ammonia, styrene or phenol).  
Emitting constituents shall be toxicologically safe. 
3.4 
Conditioning 
Prior to testing, the trim panel assy parts and the specimens taken from them must be conditioned 
in the DIN 50014 – 23/50-2 standard climate for at least 24 h.  
For adhesive bonding, the speci-
fications of the adhesive manufacturers concerning curing times of the adhesive shall be observed, 
this means that the tests may not be carried out before the adhesive is completely cured. 
3.5 
Appearance of finished trim panels in as-received condition 
The surface appearance shall be free of visible defects. Flaws in appearance, such as detached 
decorative material, mismatched or distorted decorative material, shiny areas and sink marks, ad-
hesive bleed-through or wrinkling are not permissible. 
 
Edges of punched and cut areas must be clean and free of burrs; broken substrate is not permitted.   
3.6 
Materials 
For composite material parts (e.g. adhesive and welded joints, multicomponent injection molding) 
compatibility of the materials shall be ensured. If necessary, the materials shall be matched to each 
other by means of pretreatments (e.g. surface pretreatment). This also applies to paint coatings.  
The assembly part must remain dimensionally stable and functional in the temperature range be-
tween (–40 and +90 )°C. For materials exposed to di rect sunlight (e.g. upper edge molding) this 
temperature range is extended up to +100 °C. No vis ibly perceptible changes may occur as com-
pared to as-received condition. 
 
For the materials of all add-on parts and individual layers of the ASSY the respective material TL 
standards apply. 
3.6.1 
Substrate 
The respective material TL standards apply. 
3.6.2 
Trims 
The respective material TL standards apply. 
 
For components laminated with plastic film (e.g. PVC foam film on ABS) the increase in film sur-
face shall be restricted technologically to a maximum of 70 %. 
 
After exposure to pressure load, the trims must not exhibit any permanent deformation (pressure 
marks).  
In the case of textile trims, the design of the fabric must be such that individual threads cannot be 
pulled out during use.  
After aging (open-air weathering, environmental aging, other aging tests) the trims may not exhibit 
any visibly perceptible changes beyond the released tolerances.  


Page 3 
TL 496: 2003-02 
D 
4 
Component requirements 
4.1 
Testing on the ASSY 
4.1.1 
Color and grain 
The color is compared colorimetrically to the released original sample (color constancy acc. to 
VW 50190). 
 
The grain is compared visually to the released original sample.  
4.1.2 
Open-Air Weathering 
See Section 5.1. 
Basic quality criterion is open-air weathering for one year.  
This test is performed exclusively by the Volkswagen Group. 
 
There shall be no visibly perceptible changes as compared to as-received condition; e.g., blisters, 
distortions, twisting, flaking, bursting, warping of contours and radii, separation of composite mate-
rial, changes in the degree of glossiness and separation of add-on parts. 
A visible change acc. to gray-scale level ≥ 4 acc. to DIN EN 20 105-A02 is permitted. Color shift is 
not permissible. 
 
The agings mentioned in sections 4.1.3 to 4.1.6 are short time tests with correlation to open-air 
weathering. These tests allow for the release to be issued already before aging of the parts in o-
pen-air weathering. If the parts do not pass the tests mentioned below it is not sensible to perform 
open-air weathering. 
4.1.3 
Environmental cycle test acc. to PV 2005 and section 5.1 
Test duration: 50 cycles 
Laminated parts shall be conditioned before testing acc. to the data sheet of the laminating adhe-
sive in order to ensure that the adhesive is completely cured. 
 
There shall be no visibly perceptible changes as compared to as-received condition; e.g., blisters, 
distortions, twisting, flaking, bursting, warping of contours and radii, separation of composite mate-
rial, changes in color or in the degree of glossiness and separation of add-on parts. 
4.1.4 
Environmental temperature aging 
1) 16 h / -40 °C 
2) 48 h / 55 °C / 95 % relative humidity 
3) 16 h / 90 °C 
4) 16 h / 100 °C (only for evaluation of the upper edge molding area) 
The four steps of the environmental temperature aging mentioned above shall be executed in the 
sequence indicated. Laminated parts shall be conditioned before testing acc. to the data sheet of 
the laminating adhesive in order to ensure that the adhesive is completely cured. The parts shall be 
evaluated after each step. Commence with step 3) only if the parts are dry. After step 4) only the 
upper edge molding area (area exposed to direct sunlight) shall be evaluated. 
 
There shall be no visibly perceptible changes as compared to as-received condition; e.g., blisters, 
distortions, twisting, flaking, bursting, warping of contours and radii, separation of composite mate-
rial, changes in color or in the degree of glossiness and separation of add-on parts.  
 
For testing the bonding of decorative material, step 1) may be deleted in consultation with the re-
sponsible test laboratories.  


Page 4 
TL 496: 2003-02 
D 
 
4.1.5 
Aging at elevated temperature (500 h / 90°C) 
This test shall only be performed for film-laminated components.  
No separation of the decorative layer may occur. Formation of cracks and blistering is not permit-
ted. 
4.1.6 
Low-temperature aging 24h / -40°C), ball drop  test acc. to PV 3905 
There shall be no visibly perceptible changes as compared to as-received condition; e.g., cracks, 
blisters, distortions, twisting, flaking, bursting, warping of contours and radii, separation of compos-
ite material, discoloration, changes in color or in the degree of glossiness, and separation of add-on 
parts. 
 
In the ball drop test at -40 °C (500 g ball / ball drop height: 400 mm) no fractures, cracks or visible 
indentations may occur on the component. Also after heating to room temperature no cracks or 
other damages may occur.  
In consultation with the releasing laboratories the ball drop height for loudspeaker grilles may be 
reduced to 230 mm.  
4.2 
Testing on finished part sections or individual layers 
4.2.1 
Emission behavior 
4.2.1.1 Emission behavior acc. to VW 50180 
All individual materials used and, if necessary, also the composite material shall be tested acc. to 
VW 50180. 
4.2.1.2 Amine emission acc. to PV 3937 
No emission of amine catalysts from PUR foam systems (hard and soft foam, laminating foam). 
Evaluation by means of the indicator method acc. to PV 3937. 
 
There must be no visibly perceptible color change of the standard PVC film and no specific amine 
odor. 
4.2.2 
Colorfastness to light acc. to PV 1303 
The specimens shall be taken from the assembly, i.e. for laminated or painted parts the composite 
(substrate with trim) shall be tested.  
Color shift and formation of cracks are not permitted. 
4.2.2.1 Areas exposed to indirect sunlight 
Test duration: 3 periods of exposure. 
 
Gray-scale level ≥ 4 acc. to DIN EN 20 105-A02. 


Page 5 
TL 496: 2003-02 
D 
4.2.2.2 Areas exposed to direct sunlight 
Test duration: 5 periods of exposure. 
 
Gray-scale level ≥ 4; for leather gray-scale level ≥ 3 acc. to DIN EN 20 105-A02. 
4.2.3 
Surface scratch resistance acc. to PV 3952 
Scratch 
resistance 
shall 
be 
tested 
on 
all 
surface 
materials 
in 
visible 
areas. 
The test shall be carried out acc. to PV 3952.  
 
∆L shall be ≤ 0,5 with a load of 5N and ≤ 1,5 with a load of 10 N. 
4.2.4 
Abrasion resistance (fastness to rubbing) of the trims acc. to PV 3906 
Abrasion resistance (fastness to rubbing) shall be tested on all surface materials. 
 
Testing shall be performed using a crockmeter acc. to EN ISO 105-X12. The test requires 500 
crockmeter strokes using dry and moist (see section 5.2) rubbing cloth. 
On surfaces with artificially created grains, grain changes (e.g. flattening of the grain, deformation 
of grain tips) acc. to released sample are permissible. For leather grains, grain changes are im-
permissible.  
4.2.4.1 Surface evaluation 
Slight alterations acc. to released sample are permissible. 
4.2.4.2 Evaluation of rubbing cloth 
Bleeding of rubbing cloth acc. to gray-scale level ≥ 4 as per DIN EN 20.105-A03. 
4.2.5 
Behavior of decorative material with respect to detergents (bleeding)  
See Section 5.3. 
Bleeding behavior shall be tested on all surface materials.  
Testing shall be performed using a crockmeter acc. to EN ISO 105-X12. The test requires  
10 crockmeter strokes using rubbing cloth saturated with different agents (see Section 5.2). 
Textile trim shall be cleanable with an aqueous wetting agent solution and with conventional clean-
ing agents (e.g. petroleum ether) without forming rings. No rings may form on a surface of approx. 
50 cm² wetted with cleaning agent after evaporation of the fluid. 
4.2.5.1 Surface evaluation 
No change of color or surface structure. Changes in gloss acc. to released sample are permissible 
(see Section 5.4). 
4.2.5.2 Evaluation of rubbing cloth 
Bleeding of rubbing cloth acc. to gray-scale level ≥ 4 as per DIN EN 20.105-A03. 
 
 
 


Page 6 
TL 496: 2003-02 
D 
 
4.2.6 
Cleaning behavior of the surface materials 
Textile trim shall be cleanable with a wetting agent solution and with conventional solvents (e.g. 
petroleum ether) without forming rings. No rings may form on a surface of approx. 50 cm² wetted 
with cleaning agent after evaporation of the fluid.  
On all other surface materials, the droplet test (see Section 5.5) shall be performed using different 
agents (see Section 5.5). 
 
Surface changes (e.g. color residues of dyed detergents) are to be stated only if they cannot be 
removed with a wet cloth. 
4.2.7 
Bonding of decorative material 
Decorative materials within the context of this standard are e.g. foam films and unfoamed films, 
textiles and leather. The test stated below does not apply to painted parts. For painted parts, TL 
226 shall be used. 
 
Bonding of decorative material shall be tested in a peel test acc. to PV 2034. 
The following peel forces (based on 5 cm specimen width) shall be reached: see Table 1. 
Table 1 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
Requirement 
1 
Between substrate and decorative film (e.g. foam film or unfoamed film for wide-surface 
laminated parts) 
1.1 
As-received condition 
N/5 cm 
1.2 
After environmental temperature aging N/5 cm 
1.3 
After low-temperature aging 
N/5 cm 
1.4 
After Environmental cycle test 
N/5 cm 
 
 
≥ 30 
2 
Between trim face fabric and foam (e.g. for foam laminated trims in the insert area) 
2.1 
As-received condition 
N/5 cm 
2.2 
After environmental temperature aging N/5 cm 
2.3 
After low-temperature aging 
N/5 cm 
2.4 
After Environmental cycle test 
N/5 cm 
 
 
≥ 15 
The value 15 N/5cm only applies to a separation of the composite material between foam and face 
fabric. If within the peel test a structural break occurs in one of the components, the strength of the
respective component shall be used. This value may not be below 10 N/5cm. In any case, it must 
be ensured that the composite withstands the agings stated above without damage. 
4.2.8 
Burning behavior 
The burning behavior shall be tested acc. to US Regulation 571.302 or DIN 75200, respectively. If 
specified in drawing, performance specifications or development test specification catalog, the bur-
ning behavior shall be tested acc. to TL 1010. 
5 
Notes on testing 
5.1 
Open-Air Weathering 
For genuine leather, a bleaching of the leather acc. to gray-scale level ≥ 3 acc. to DIN EN 20 105-
A0 is permissible, but no color shift. 
 


Page 7 
TL 496: 2003-02 
D 
5.2 
Rubbing cloth 
Rubbing cloth can be considered "moist" or “saturated” if it has been immersed for at least one mi-
nute in the respective medium and then has been shortly placed between filter paper. 
5.3 
Cleaning agents 
The surface shall be resistant to the following agents: 
─ 
aqueous tenside solution 
─ 
ammoniacal alcoholic cleaning solution: 
─ 
isopropanol / n-heptane, 50:50 
─ 
petroleum ether (special boiling point spirit acc. to DIN 51 631 – 2) 
─ 
alcohol acc. to TL 52117, not for genuine leather 
Country-specific products shall be used as cleaning agents in the individual test locations. The 
cleaning agent used shall be specified in the test report. 
5.4 
Gloss 
Changes in degree of glossiness shall be stated only if they cannot be removed with a wet cloth. 
5.5 
Droplet test 
Droplets of approx. 0,1 ml of the cleaning agents stated in Section 5.3 are applied to the surface 
using a pipette. After allowing 10 min at room temperature (23 °C) for the medium to work in, the 
specimens are dried for 30 min at 60 °C (in mechani cally circulated air).  
The surface shall be evaluated 24 h after the treatment. 
6 
Referenced documents 
TL 226 
Paint Coating on Materials Used in the Vehicle Interior Trim; Require-
ments 
TL 1010 
Materials for Vehicle Interiors; Burning Behavior, Material Requirements 
TL 52117 
Spirit, Denatured; Lubricant Requirements 
PV 1303 
Non-Metallic Materials; Exposure Test of Passenger Compartment Com-
ponents 
PV 2005 
Vehicle Parts; Testing of Resistance to Environmental Cycle Test 
PV 2034 
Non-Metallic Planar Fabrics; Peel Test 
PV 3905 
Organic Materials; Ball Drop Test 
PV 3906 
Non-Metallic Planar Fabrics; Testing of Abrasion Behavior 
PV 3937 
Amine Emissions from PUR Flexible Foam; Indicator Method 
PV 3952 
Plastic Interior Components; Testing of Scratch Resistance 
VW 01155 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 50180 
Components in Passenger Compartment; Emission Behavior 
VW 50190 
Components of the Vehicle Interior Trim; Colorimetric Evaluation 
VW 91101 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN 50.014 
Climates and Their Technical Application; Standard Atmospheres 


Page 8 
TL 496: 2003-02 
D 
DIN 51.631 
Mineral Spirits; Special Boiling Point Spirits; Requirements 
DIN 75.200 
Determination of Burning Behavior of Interior Materials in Motor Vehicles 
DIN EN 20.105-A02 
Textiles – Tests for Colour Fastness – Part A02: Grey Scale for Assessing 
Change in Color 
DIN EN 20.105-A03 
Textiles; Tests for Color Fastness, Part A03: Grey Scale for Assessing 
Staining 
DIN EN ISO 105-X12 
Textiles; Tests for Colour Fastness – Part X12: Colour Fastness to Rub-
bing 
