# TL52418E.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 55 16 9 
February 2005 
CR Elastomer for Wiper Blades 
Material Requirements 
TL 
524 18 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
CR, wiper blade, windshield washer system, elastomer 
 
Page 2 of 6 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-31/2 Dr. Taddigs Tel.: -22178 
Dr. Schilling 
Frau Krenz Tel.: +49-5361-9-48869 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsuppy.com”. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.05 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 524 18, 2003-08: 
─ 
Requirements for hardness, weight change in water and tension set changed 
─ 
Resistance to open-air weathering according to VW 501 85 added 
─ 
Surface added 
─ 
Total cross-linking density added 
─ 
Test for extractable ingredients added 
─ 
Referenced standards updated 
Previous issues 
1994-05; 1997-05; 1999-02; 2003-08 
1 
Scope 
This technical supply specification specifies the material requirements for CR elastomers for wiper 
blades in the windshield washer system. 
2 
Description 
CR Elastomer according to TL 524 18 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 011 55. 
Resistance to open air weathering according to VW 501 85. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01 and the End-of-Life Vehicles 
Directive of the European Union 2000/53/EG Appendix II. 
For complete testing, 20 finished parts and 1 test sheet in German standard paper size DIN A5, 
6 mm thick, are required. 
3.2 
Appearance 
Flawless surface and smooth wiping edges. The following are not permitted: nodes, pores, 
inclusions, cracks, waviness and other types of damage. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 524 18: 2005-02 
 
3.3 
Design 
According to drawing. Requirements on drawings deviating from this Technical Supply 
Specification take precedence. 
3.4 
Evaluation of the measuring results 
The required numerical values apply to each individual measurement. 
3.5 
Material 
CR elastomer 
3.6 
Identification according to VDA 260 
>CR< 
3.7 
Surface 
Graphite coated. 
3.8 
Color 
Black. 
4 
Properties 
See Table 1. 
NOTE Only the determination of the properties according to no. 2.1 and 7 from Table 1 is carried 
out on the test sheet. All other determinations are carried out on the finished part or on specimens 
taken from the finished part. 
Table 1 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
Requirement 
1 
Density acc. to DIN EN ISO 1183-1 
and VW 2.8.1 
g/cm3 
Acc. to sample 
2 
Hardness 
 
 
2.1 
Sheet material acc. to DIN 53505 
 
 
2.1.1 
As-received condition 
Shore A Preferred hardness 63 ± 5 or 
deviating according to drawing entry 
2.1.2 
After aging at elevated temperature 
72 h at +90 °C 
see Section 5.1 
Shore A 0 to +3 as compared to as-received 
condition 
2.2 
Finished part, center of surface of back and lip in cross section  
(minimum thickness ≥ 1.5 mm) acc. to DIN ISO 48 
2.2.1 
As-received condition 
IRHD 
Preferred hardness 60 ± 4 or 
deviating according to drawing entry 
2.2.2 
After aging at elevated temperature 
72 h at +90 °C 
see Section 5.1 
IRHD 
0 to +3 as compared to as-received 
condition 


Page 3 
TL 524 18: 2005-02 
 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
Requirement 
3 
Tensile strength 
see Section 5.2 
 
 
3.1 
As-received condition 
N/mm2 
> 8 
3.2 
After aging at elevated temperature 
72 h at +90 °C 
see Section 5.1 
N/mm2 
> 7 
4 
Elongation at tear 
see Section 5.2 
 
 
4.1 
As-received condition 
% 
200 to 500 
4.2 
After aging at elevated temperature 
72 h at +90 °C 
see Section 5.1 
% 
200 to 500 
5 
Stress value acc. to DIN 53504 
at 100 % elongation 
As-received condition 
N/mm2 
> 2.5 
6 
Weight change after aging in 
 
 
6.1 
Alcohol/water mixture 
22 h at RT 
see Section 5.3 
% 
0 to +7 
6.2 
Water 
46 h at +80 °C 
% 
≤ 16 
7 
Rebound resilience acc. to DIN 53512 
(measured on test sheet) 
As-received condition 
% 
> 50 
8 
Ozone resistance acc. to VW 2.8.1 
see Section 5.4 
 
Free of cracks 
9 
Lightfastness acc. to VW 2.8.1 
 
No changes as compared to 
as-received condition. 
10 
Leaching after exposure to 
 
 
10.1 
Alcohol/water mixture 
see Section 5.5 
 
No discoloration 
10.2 
Glass cleaner/water mixture 
see Section 5.6 
 
No discoloration 
11 
Tension set acc. to DIN ISO 2285 at 
constant deformation after elevated-
temperature aging  
72 h at +90 °C 
see Section 5.7 
% 
≤ 25 
12 
Low-temperature behavior VW 2.8.1 
22 h at -40 °C 
 
Elastic 
13 
Total cross-linking density (chemical and 
physical) 
see Section 5.8 
 
Acc. to sample 
14 
Extractable ingredients acc. to PV 3939 
see Section 5.9 
% 
Only required if “Extractable 
ingredients < … %” specified 
in drawing. 
15 
Low-temperature flexibility acc. to PV 3945
see Section 5.10 
°C 
Only required if “Glass transition 
temperature Tg = …°C” specified in 
drawing. 


Page 4 
TL 524 18: 2005-02 
 
5 
Notes on testing 
5.1 
Aging at elevated temperature 
The specimens are aged 72 h at +90 °C in a mechanical circulation oven according to DIN 53508. 
Measurements 15 min after removal. 
5.2 
Tensile strength, elongation at tear 
Specimens are taken from the back (S3A or S3 standard specimens). 
5.3 
Weight change 
80-mm long finished part sections are aged for 22 h at room temperature in 250 ml of a mixture of 
alcohol and water (see Section 5.5). 
5.4 
Ozone resistance 
In a test frame according to PV 3305. The specimens are separated on the swing bar and the ends 
wound with textile adhesive tape to better restrain them. 
150-mm long finished part sections are fastened in the clamping device on the test frame 
and stretched until a 15% elongation is reached between the markings, which are spaced 
100 mm apart. 
Prior to aging in the ozone climate chamber, the test frame, with the finished part sections clamped 
in, is acclimatized at room temperature for 46 h. 
5.5 
Leaching effect – alcohol/water mixture 
One finished part section (5 g) is divided into 3 parts of equal length and aged for 1 h at room 
temperature in 50 ml (150 ml beaker, tall) of an alcohol/water mixture, which consists of 50 volume 
percent alcohol and 50 volume percent de-ionized water. 
After carrying out the aging and removal of the rubber parts, light-colored painted panels according 
to VW 2.8.1 are immersed vertically in the fluid for 1 h at room temperature. 
After the end of the test duration they are exposed to light for 1 h under an unfiltered quartz lamp. 
The painted sheet is evaluated for discoloration before and after the exposure. 
5.6 
Leaching effect – glass cleaner/water mixture 
One finished part section (5 g) is divided into 3 parts of equal length and aged for 1 h at room 
temperature in 50 ml (150 ml beaker, tall) of a washer fluid/water mixture, which consists of 
50 volume percent glass cleaner according to TL 521 64 and 50 volume percent de-ionized water. 
After carrying out the aging and removal of the rubber parts, light-colored painted panels according 
to VW 2.8.1 are immersed vertically in the fluid for 1 h at room temperature. 
After the end of the test duration they are exposed to light for 1 h under an unfiltered quartz lamp. 
The painted sheet is evaluated for discoloration before and after the exposure. 


Page 5 
TL 524 18: 2005-02 
 
5.7 
Tension set 
In a test frame according to PV 3305. The specimens are separated on the swing bar and the ends 
wound with textile tape to better restrain them. 
100 mm long finished part sections are fastened in the clamping device on the test frame and 
stretched until a 50% elongation is reached between the markings, which are spaced 50 mm apart. 
15 min after mounting, the test frames with the elastomer parts must be aged for 72 h at +90 °C in 
a natural convection oven according to DIN 53508. The end of the test period is followed by 45 min 
acclimatization at room temperature. 
The measurements are performed 30 min after unloading. 
Evaluation: 
Tension set RzV in % at constant deformation: 
L2 – L0 
RzV = 
L1 – L0 
x 100 
Legend: 
L0 = original gage length of the specimen sections 
L1 = gage length of the specimen sections in deformed state 
L2 = gage length of the specimen sections after unloading for specified time 
5.8 
Total cross-linking density 
Determination of the total cross-linking density (chemical and physical) is carried out by the 
Volkswagen Group Central Laboratory using magnetic resonance cross linking density 
spectrometry. 
The following parameters shall be specified: 
─ 
Total cross-linking density (chemical and physical): 
XLD 
[mo1 x cm
-3] 
─ 
Spin pattern relaxation time: 
T2 
[ms] 
5.9 
Extractable ingredients 
The determination of extractable ingredients is carried out using an extraction apparatus according 
to PV 3939, May 2000 edition, Section 3.1. 
5.10 
Low-Temperature flexibility 
Determination of the glass transition temperature Tg is carried out using dynamic-mechanical 
analysis (DMA) according to PV 3945. 


Page 6 
TL 524 18: 2005-02 
 
6 
Referenced standards*) 
TL 521 64 
Windshield Washer Fluid; Material Requirements 
VW 2.8.1 
Elastomers; Material Requirements and Testing 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 501 85 
Vehicle Components; Resistance to Open Air Weathering 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
PV 3305 
Vulcanized Rubber Products; Test of Ozone Resistance and Permanent 
Deformation 
PV 3939 
Tubing in Windshield Washer Systems; Extractable Ingredients 
PV 3945 
Elastomers 
and 
Thermoplastic 
Elastomers; 
Determining 
the 
Low-
Temperature Flexibility with DMA 
DIN 53504 
Testing of Rubber; Determination of Tensile Strength at Break, Tensile 
Stress at Yield, Elongation at Break and Stress Values in a Tensile Test 
DIN 53505 
Testing of Rubber – Shore A and Shore D Hardness Test 
DIN 53508 
Testing of Rubber – Accelerated Ageing 
DIN 53512 
Testing of Rubber – Determination of Rebound Resilience (Schob Pendulum) 
DIN ISO 48 
Rubber, Vulcanized or Thermoplastic – Determination of Hardness 
(Hardness Between 10 IRHD and 100 IRHD) 
DIN ISO 2285 
Rubber, Vulcanized or Thermoplastic – Determination of Tension Set under 
Constant Elongation, and of Tension Set, Elongation and Creep under 
Constant Tensile Load 
DIN EN ISO 1183-1 Plastics – Methods for Determining the Density of Non-Cellular Plastics – 
Part 1: Immersion Method, Liquid Pyknometer Method and Titration Method 
VDA 260 
Bauteile von Kraftfahrzeugen; Kennzeichnung der Werkstoffe (Motor Vehicle 
Components; Identification of Materials – only available in German) 
                                                
*) 
In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
