# TL52607－2005E海绵.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 55 21 1 
January 2005 
Comfort PUR Insert Parts 
Material Requirements 
TL 
526 07 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
PUR, polyurethane, polyether polyurethane, cut foam, seat covering, 
lamination, insert parts 
D
 
Page 1 of 3 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-31/4 
Peters 
Tel:-28120 
Dr. Schilling 
Frau Krenz Tel: +49-5361-9-48869 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.05 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 526 07, 2001-05: 
─ 
Table 1 completely revised 
Previous issues 
2001-05 
1 
Scope 
This TL standard specifies the material requirements for polyether polyurethane (PUR) cut foams 
for comfort laminations and comfort insert parts (sewn) for seat coverings. 
2 
Description 
PUR foam according to TL 526 07 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
Emission behavior according to VW 501 80. 
Burning behavior according to TL 1010. 
The foam must be suitable for flame lamination and the composite material must meet the 
requirements of VW 501 05. 
Changes to the covering material brought about by the PUR foam are not permitted. 
The cellular structure of the foamed plastic must be uniform. 
The required numerical values apply to each individual measurement. 
2 m² are required for complete testing. 
3.2 
Conditioning 
Testing shall begin no sooner than 48 h after the manufacture of the PUR flexible foam. Prior to 
measurement, the specimens must be aged for at least 24 h in the DIN 50014-23/50-2 standard 
climate. 
The measurements shall also be taken in the DIN 50014-23/50-2 standard climate or immediately 
after removal therefrom. 
 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 526 07: 2005-01 
D 
3.3 
Material 
Polyether polyurethane (PUR) foam 
3.4 
Identification according to VDA 260 
>PEUR< 
4 
Properties 
See Table 1. 
Table 1 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1 
Thickness 
According to drawing 
2 
Gross density according to DIN EN ISO 845 
According to drawing 
3 
Compression stress1)  
 
3.1 
As-received condition 
According to drawing 
3.2 
After aging in moist, hot climate 
200 h at +90 °C and (100 minus 6)% relative 
humidity 
Relative change as compared to as-received 
condition4)  
 
 
-30% to +10% 
4 
Tear strength2)  
 
4.1 
As-received condition 
≥ 80 kPa 
4.2 
After aging in moist, hot climate 
200 h at +90 °C and (100 minus 6)% relative 
humidity4)  
 
≥ 80 kPa 
5 
Elongation at tear2) 
 
5.1 
As-received condition 
≥ 90% 
5.2 
After aging in moist, hot climate 
200 h at +90 °C and (100 minus 6)% relative 
humidity 
 
≥ 90% 
6 
Compression set2)  
 
6.1 
As-received condition 
≤ 5% 
6.2 
After aging in moist, hot climate 
200 h at +90 °C and (100 minus 6)% relative 
humidity 
 
≤ 15% 
7 
Amine catalyst emission 
Evaluation by means of the indicator method 
according to Test Specification PV 3937 
(This test may be omitted if the vehicle is not 
equipped with PVC films or leatherette or if the 
pigments contained in the PVC have been made 
sufficiently resistant to a reaction with volatile 
amines in the passenger compartment.) 
No visibly perceptible color change of 
the standard PVC film, no specific 
amine odor. 
1) Determination according to DIN EN ISO 3386-1; but compression by 60% performed 4 times. The 4
th compression is recorded 
at 40% deformation of the PUR foam. 
2) Determination according to DIN EN ISO 1798, tensile specimen A, but with traverse speed 100 mm/min 
3) Determination according to PV 3410 
4) Determination according to DIN EN ISO 1856, method A, number of specimens n = 5, compression deformation 50% 


Page 3 
TL 526 07: 2005-01 
D 
5 
Referenced standards*) 
PV 3410 
PUR-Weichschaumstoff; Prüfmethoden (PUR Flexible Foam; Testing 
Methods – currently only available in German) 
PV 3937 
Amine Emissions from PUR Flexible Foam; Indicator Method 
TL 1010 
Materials for Vehicle Interiors; Flammability, Material Requirements 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 501 05 
Upholstery Fabrics; Requirements, Quality Specifications, Tests 
VW 501 80 
Components in Passenger Compartment; Emission Behavior 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN 50014 
Climates and their Technical Application; Standard Atmospheres 
DIN EN ISO 845 
Cellular Plastics and Rubbers – Determination of Apparent (Bulk) Density 
DIN EN ISO 1798 
Flexible Cellular Polymeric Materials – Determination of Tensile Strength and 
Elongation at Break 
DIN EN ISO 1856 
Flexible Cellular Polymeric Materials – Determination of Compression Set 
DIN EN ISO 3386-1 Polymeric Materials, Cellular Flexible – Determination of Stress-Strain 
Characteristic in Compression – Part 1: Low-Density Materials 
VDA 260 
Bauteile von Kraftfahrzeugen; Kennzeichnung der Werkstoffe (Components 
for Motor Vehicles; Identification of Materials – only available in German) 
                                                
*) 
In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
