# TL52069_EN_04.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 55 22 1
March 2004
PP Needle-Punched, Nonwoven Material,
Light Resistant
Material Requirements
TL
520 69
Konzernnorm
3 Types: without Index (O), A, B
Descriptors:
cover, nonwoven, needle-punched nonwoven, needle web, light resistant,
lining, luggage compartment, fine nonwoven, PP, polypropylene, SBR, styrene
butadiene rubber, PP+SBR
D
Page 1 of 7
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733)
K-QS-31
Trowe
Tel. -25102
Dr. Vossen
Frau Krenz
Tel: +49-5361-9-48869
Sobanski
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 01.03
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification
TL 520 69, 1997-05:
─ 
Section 3.2 and Table 1 extended (shorn nonwoven fabric surface required)
─ 
Section 3.4 added
Previous issues
1979-01; 1983-02; 1988-08; 1991-02; 1993-07; 1997-05
1 
Scope
This Technical Supply Specification defines the material requirements for light resistant PP needle-
punched nonwoven material, e.g., for floor covering, luggage compartment covering.
2 
Designation
Example of designation for standard nonwoven fabric type:
PP needle-punched, nonwoven material according to TL 520 69
3 
Requirements
3.1 
Basic specifications
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 011 55.
Emission behavior according to VW 501 80.
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01.
The required minimum for complete testing is 2 m2.
3.2 
Types
TL 520 69
Standard nonwoven type
TL 520 69-A
Fine nonwoven, shorn
TL 520 69-B
Fine nonwoven, shorn, reduced weight
The English translation is believed to be accurate.
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.


Page 2
TL 520 69: 2004-03
D
3.3 
Appearance
The nonwoven material shall not fray at the cut edges during processing and in later use.
The material must be flexible enough to conform to the curves (radii) inside the car without forming
cracks or folds.
The material must not become sticky either at room temperature or at +90 °C, and the
impregnation must not become brittle at temperatures down to -40 °C.
The material must also be resistant to mold fungus in a moist heat climate.
3.4 
Physiological compatibility
The nonwoven material must be physiologically safe and must not induce skin irritation (e.g., due to
fine fiber dust) or produce objectionable odors.
Substances that are emitted at elevated temperatures must be toxicologically safe.
3.5 
Identification according to VDA 260
Decorative nonwoven material: >PP+SBR<
Application of adhesive (where used): >PA<
3.6 
Identification
According to drawing.
3.7 
Conditioning
Prior to testing, the specimens must be conditioned for at least 48 h in the DIN 50014 − 23/50-2
standard climate.
3.8 
Evaluation of the measuring results
The required numerical values apply to each individual measurement.


Page 3
TL 520 69: 2004-03
D
4 
Properties
See Table 1
Table 1
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
Type without
index
Type A
Type B
1
Material and structure
Nonwoven
made of 100%
polypropylene
fibers, spin dyed,
quality 1 a;
bonding using
needle-punching
and back
impregnation.
The top side must
exhibit a nappy
structure or a
fleecy character
according to the
original sample.
Nonwoven made of
100% polypropylene fibers in
6.7 dtex, spin dyed; bonding
using needle-punching and
back impregnation.
The surface must exhibit
a velour-type finish (dilour quality)
according to the original sample.
In order to avoid inhomogeneities
on the surface of the nonwoven
fabric-covered components,
the needle-punched nonwoven
surface must always be shorn.
The fiber material must be light-resistant,
so that sufficient resistance to color change
and abrasion is ensured.
Bleed-through of the bonding agent is not permitted.
1.1
Adhesive coating
-
-
The back
can be adhesive-
coated acc. to
the release.
2
Color and surface structure
Acc. to released sample
3
Weight per unit area,
see Section 5.1
3.1
Overall structure
(without adhesive)
g/m2
100
50
550+
−
100
50
470+
−
100
50
390+
−
3.2
Nonwoven fabric
g/m2
≥ 420
≥ 320
≥ 270
3.3
Back impregnation
g/m2
≥ 80
≥ 100
≥ 70
3.4
Adhesive coating of the back
g/m2
-
-
≥ 100
4
Thickness
mm
4.0 ± 0.5
2.5 ± 0.5
5
Tear strength
per 5 cm specimen width
5.1
Lengthwise
N
≥ 450
≥ 400
5.2
Crosswise
N
≥ 550
≥ 250
6
Elongation at tear,
see Section 5.2
6.1
Lengthwise
%
≥ 40
6.2
Crosswise
%
≥ 40


Page 4
TL 520 69: 2004-03
D
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
Type without
index
Type A
Type B
7
Tear propagation strength
per 5 cm specimen width,
see Section 5.3
7.1
Lengthwise
N
≥ 40
7.2
Crosswise
N
≥ 40
8
Abrasion characteristics,
see Section 5.4
8.1
Behavior after 1,000 revolutions
8.1.1
Weight loss
g
≤ 0.18
≤ 0.20
8.1.2
Wear profile
The napped structure or fleece layer must not be
abraded down to the back coating at any point.
Uniform fading according to gray-scale level 2.5
as per DIN EN 20105-A02 is permissible.
9
Behavior after xenon arc light aging
acc. to Test Specification PV 1303
Exposure periods: 10
9.1
Colorfastness to light
Gray-scale level ≥ 4 acc. to DIN EN 20105-A02.
Color shift is not permitted.
9.2
Lightfastness
Abrasion behavior after
300 Crockmeter strokes
against dry rubbing cloth,
see Section 5.5
Practically no napping or fleece abrasion; slight
trace of abrasion corresponding to the original sample
is permissible.
Substrate material shall not be visible.
10
Colorfastness to water
10.1
Filter paper test,
see Section 5.6
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to DIN EN 20105-A03
10.2
Aging of a nonwoven strip half
submerged in deionized water
After one hour of water immersion and subsequent
drying, there must be no noticeable color change.
11
Colorfastness to abrasion
11.1
Rotary abrasion test,
see Section 5.7
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to DIN EN 20105-A03;
gray-scale level 4.5 is permissible.
11.2
Crockmeter test
acc. to PV 3906
20 strokes against
moist nettle cloth
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to DIN EN 20105-A03;
gray-scale level 4.5 is permissible.
12
Dimensional change after 1 h water
immersion followed by 24 h at +90 °C
aging in mechanically circulated air and
acclimatization,
see Section 5.8
12.1
Measured wet
12.1.1 Lengthwise
%
-0.5 to +0.5
12.1.2 Crosswise
%
-0.5 to +0.5
12.2
After aging at elevated
temperature and
acclimatization
12.2.1 Lengthwise
%
-1.0 to +1.0
12.2.2 Crosswise
%
-0.5 to +0.5


Page 5
TL 520 69: 2004-03
D
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
Type without
index
Type A
Type B
13
Behavior upon treatment
with detergents
The material shall be cleanable with an aqueous
surfactant solution and with conventional organic
solvents, e.g., petroleum ether, without forming rings.
14
Behavior upon treatment
with petroleum ether,
see Section 5.9
After a surface of approx. 50 cm² has been saturated
with petroleum ether and the petroleum ether has
been allowed to evaporate, no ring shall remain
on the surface.
A color change must not appear on the unused
material during cleaning tests with a white cloth
saturated with petroleum ether, and there must
not be any bleeding on the cloth.
15
Burning behavior acc. to
US Regulation 571.302
according to TL 1010
(If required in drawing and/or release)
5 
Notes on testing
5.1 
Weight per unit area
Test according to DIN EN 29073-1 with 100-cm2 round specimens.
5.2 
Elongation at tear
Test according to DIN EN 29073-3; traverse speed v = 100 mm/min; free clamping length
(measurement length) 100 mm.
5.3 
Tear propagation strength
Test according to DIN 53859-4; traverse speed v = 100 mm/min; the mean value (ξ) of the
10 points of intersection in the load/displacement curve shall be designated as the tear propagation
strength.
5.4 
Abrasion characteristics
Test according to PV 3908, contact pressure 9.81 N.
5.5 
Abrasion behavior
Crockmeter test according to PV 3906.
At least 1 specimen shall be tested per direction after the xenon arc light aging; possible bleeding
of the rubbing cloth is not evaluated.
5.6 
Filter paper test
A piece of filter paper (Schleicher & Schüll Blauband 5893), previously immersed in deionized
water, shall be placed on a section of nonwoven fabric of approx. (50 x 50) mm; these together
shall then be loaded for 1 h with 5 kg between two glass plates.


Page 6
TL 520 69: 2004-03
D
5.7 
Rotary abrasion test
Round specimens of 100 cm2 shall be abraded against undyed nettle cloth with the Schopper
machine.
Specimen curvature
5 mm
Abrasion surface
50 cm2
Contact pressure
9.81 N
Revolutions
1000
Size of 
nettle cloth specimen
approx. (20 x 9.5) cm
The nettle cloth specimen shall be clamped into the holding fixture on the test machine together
with a similar size wool felt pad according to TL 380. Nettle cloth corresponding to ECE cotton
fabric according to DIN EN ISO 105-X12.
5.8 
Aging in water and at elevated temperatures
Test according to SAE J 883, but at +90 °C.
A nonwoven fabric section of at least (300 x 300) mm is aged in water for 1 h at room temperature;
after the water is allowed to drip off, it is dried for 24 h in mechanically circulated air at +90 °C and
subsequently acclimatized for 24 h in the DIN 50014 – 23/50-2 standard climate.
5.9 
Behavior upon treatment with petroleum ether
Special boiling point spirit according to DIN 51631-2


Page 7
TL 520 69: 2004-03
D
6 
Referenced standards*)
TL 380
Wool Felt for Testing Purposes; Material Requirements
TL 1010
Materials for Vehicle Interiors; Flammability, Material Requirements
PV 1303
Non-Metallic Materials; Exposure Test of Passenger Compartment
Components
PV 3906
Non-Metallic Planar Fabrics; Testing of Abrasion Behavior
PV 3908
Textiles, Carpets; Wear Resistance
VW 011 55
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 501 80
Components in Passenger Compartment; Emission Behavior
VW 911 01
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
DIN 50014
Climates and their Technical Application; Standard Atmospheres
DIN 51631-2
Mineral Spirits – Special Boiling Point Spirits – Requirements
DIN 53859-4
Testing of Textiles; Tear Growth Test on Textile Fabrics, Nonwoven Textiles
DIN EN 20105-A02
Textiles – Tests for Colour Fastness – Part A02: Grey Scale for Assessing
Change in Colour
DIN EN 20105-A03
Textiles; Tests for Color Fastness, Part A03: Grey Scale for Assessing
Staining
DIN EN 29073-1
Textiles; Test Method for Nonwoven Fabrics; Part 1: Determination of Mass
Per Unit Area
DIN EN 29073-3
Textiles; Test Method for Nonwoven Fabrics; Part 3: Determination of
Tensile Strength And Elongation
DIN EN ISO 105-X12
Textiles; Tests for Color Fastness; Color Fastness to Rubbing
SAE J 883
Test Method For Determining Dimensional Stability
VDA 260
Bauteile von Kraftfahrzeugen; Kennzeichnung der Werkstoffe (Automotive
Components, Identification of Materials; only available in German)
                                                
*)
In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
