# TL52226(2004-02-01,EN).pdf

Klass.-Nr. 55 22 0
February 2004
Molded Headlining ASSY,
Lightweight Types
Material Requirements
TL
522 26
Konzernnorm
4 Types: C, D, E, F
Descriptors:
roof lining, head lining, roofliner, headliner, roof liner, PUR, polyurethane,
foamed plastic, molded headlining
Page 1 of 8
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733)
K-QS-31
Dr. Vossen    Tel: 28509
Frau Krenz
Tel: +49-5361-9-48869
Sobanski
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 01.03
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification
TL 522 26, 1998-12:
─ 
Procedure to determine flexural rigidity added
─ 
Weight per unit area for Type F: Tolerance increased
─ 
Type F: Description of the combined material extended
─ 
Table 1 revised
Previous issues
1981-08; 1983-12; 1984-12; 1988-03; 1995-08; 1996-10; 1998-03; 1998-12
1 
Scope
This Technical Supply Specification (TL standard) contains material requirements for ready-to-
install roof linings for passenger cars with a substrate weight per unit area of < 1,500 g/m2
(= lightweight type).
2 
Designation
Sample designation for molded headlining ASSY, type C:
Molded headlining according to TL 522 26-C
3 
Requirements
3.1 
Basic specifications
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 011 55.
Emission behavior according to VW 501 80.
Color constancy according to VW 501 90.
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01.
At least 5 parts are required for complete laboratory testing.
3.1.1 
Appearance
The molded part ASSY shall maintain its dimensional and functional integrity during transportation,
storage, assembly, and subsequent service in the respective temperature range as well as under
climatic conditions of +55 °C and 95% relative humidity.
The English translation is believed to be accurate.
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2
TL 522 26: 2004-02
3.1.2 
Mounting characteristics
There shall be no disruptive visual changes, such as deformation or discoloration, as a result of the
production flow and rework temperatures.
3.1.3 
Physiological compatibility
The materials must be physiologically harmless, i.e. they must not cause skin irritation due to
exposed glass fibers or glass fiber dust, for example.
3.2 
Identification according to VDA*) 260
─ 
TL 522 26-C
>PUR, PET/PBT<
─ 
TL 522 26-D
>PUR, PVC<
─ 
TL 522 26-E
>PET/PBT, PUR-GM, PET/PBT<
─ 
TL 522 26-F
>PET/PBT, PUR-GM, PET/PBT<
3.3 
Types according to drawing
─ 
TL 522 26-C
PUR hard foam material, thermoplastically formable, knit-backed, temperature range
-40 °C to +110 °C,
─ 
TL 522 26-D
PUR hard foam material, thermoplastically formable, foam film-backed, temperature range
-40 °C to +110 °C,
─ 
TL 522 26-E
PUR foamed plastic/glass mat sandwich, knit-backed, temperature range -40 °C to +90 °C,
─ 
TL 522 26-F
PUR foamed plastic/glass mat sandwich, with reduced substrate weight, backed, temperature
range -40 °C to +100 °C.
3.4 
Conditioning
Prior to testing, the specimens must be conditioned for at least 48 h in the DIN 50014 – 23/50-2
standard climate.
3.5 
Evaluation of the measuring results
The required numerical values apply to each individual measurement.
                                                
*) VDA = Verband der Automobilindustrie (German Association of the Automotive Industry)


Page 3
TL 522 26: 2004-01
4 
Properties
See Table 1.
Table 1
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
Type C
Type D
Type E
Type F
1
Material
1.1
Substrate material
Polyethylene layer
Glass-fiber nonwoven
Polyethylene layer
Polyester polyurethane foam
(gross density 40 ± 5 kg/m3)
Polyethylene layer glass-fiber nonwoven
Polyethylene layer;
Polyethylene layer/roof side dyed black according
to released sample;
Sandwich made of
polyester polyurethane
cut foam (gross density
43 ± 5 kg/m3) and a
glass-fiber nonwoven
saturated with polyester
resin
The roof side of the
resin-saturated glass-
fiber nonwoven is
covered with a thin
polyester nonwoven
Sandwich made of
polyurethane medium
hard cut foam (gross
density 43 ± 5 kg/m3)
bonded with glass mat
on both sides; the roof
side of the glass mat is
covered with a thin
cellulose polyethylene
layer or paper
polyethylene layer
or
sandwich made of post-
hardened PUR soft foam
reinforced with glass
fiber layers on both
sides; the roof side of
the glass fiber layer is
covered with a
nonwoven; film
protective and adhesive
layers can be used.
Foamed plastic according to reference spectrum, see Section 5.1
1.2
Decorative material
Acc. to drawing/
original sample
PVC foam film
acc. to TL 481-B
Acc. to drawing/
original sample
Acc. to drawing/
original sample
2
Weight per unit area
2.1
Substrate, total
g/m2
800 ± 50
800 ± 50
1370 ± 100
950 ± 150
2.2
Decorative material
g/m2
Acc. to drawing/
original sample
450 ± 25
Acc. to drawing/
original sample
Acc. to drawing/
original sample


Page 4
TL 522 26: 2004-02
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
Type C
Type D
Type E
Type F
3
Glass fiber content
see Section 5.2
%
-
30 to 40
4
Appearance of parts in as-received condition
4.1
Visual appearance
The substrate and the decorative material must be bonded with one another over the full surface
area. The molded parts must have a uniform and flawless surface acc. to the released sample.
Flaws in appearance, such as broken substrate, roughening, shiny areas, folds, blisters, dents
or soiling, for example due to adhesive bleed-through, are not permitted.
-
-
There must be no exposed glass fibers on the
component, particularly on the edges of punched
and cut areas.
4.2
Dimensional stability
Dimensions and tolerances acc. to drawing
4.3
Appearance after aging in non-installed
condition, visual evaluation
No changes with respect to as-received condition, such as partial loosening of the decorative
material, blistering, denting, discoloration, clear flattening of the bead profile must occur on the
molded part. Deformation in the cut edge area around the part, such as curvature of the edges,
is not permitted.
4.3.1
After 16 h aging in mechanical circulation
oven at
+90 °C
-
Acc. to Table 1 No. 4.3
-
+100 °C
-
-
Acc. to Table 1 No. 4.3
+110 °C
Acc. to Table 1 No. 4.3
-
4.3.2
After environmental aging
48 h at +55 °C in mechanically circulated air
and 95% rel. humidity
Acc. to Table 1 No. 4.3
4.3.3
After low-temperature aging
24 h / -40 °C
Acc. to Table 1 No. 4.3
4.3.4
After environmental cycle test acc. to PV 2005,
20 cycles
Acc. to Table 1 No. 4.3
5
Adhesion of the layers acc. to PV 2034
see Section 5.3
5.1
In as-received condition
N/5cm
Decorative material ≥ 30
Glass-fiber nonwoven ≥ 10


Page 5
TL 522 26: 2004-01
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
Type C
Type D
Type E
Type F
5.2
After 16 h aging in mechanical circulation
oven at
+90 °C
N/5 cm
-
Decorative material ≥ 30
Glass-fiber nonwoven ≥
10
-
+100 °C
N/5 cm
-
Decorative material ≥ 30
Glass-fiber nonwoven ≥
10
+110 °C
N/5 cm
Decorative material ≥ 30
Glass-fiber nonwoven ≥ 10
-
5.3
After environmental aging
48 h at +55 °C in mechanically circulated air
and 95% rel. humidity
N/5 cm
Decorative material ≥ 30
Glass-fiber nonwoven ≥ 10
5.4
After low-temperature aging
24 h / -40 °C
N/5 cm
Decorative material ≥ 30
Glass-fiber nonwoven ≥ 10
6
Colorfastness to light acc. to PV 1303
2 exposure periods
Gray-scale level ≥ 4 acc. to DIN EN 20105-A02.
Color shift is not permitted.
7
Abrasion behavior
7.1
Brush abrasion acc. to PV 3907
see Section 5.4
Acc. to released sample,
i.e. no felting and no
pilling permissible; slight
roughing is permissible.
-
Acc. to released sample,
i.e. no felting and no
pilling permissible; slight
roughing is permissible.
Printed knit fabric: no
damage permissible.
Knit with surface thread/
Bicone knit: slight
roughing permissible.
Polyester knit (micro
pique): roughing
acc. to released sample
permissible.
For all decorative
materials: felting and
pilling not permissible.
7.2
Rotary abrasion test acc. to Section 5.5
Colorfastness
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to DIN EN 20105-A03.
Gray-scale level 4-5 is permissible.
For PVC film acc. to TL 481-B (does not apply to nonwoven microfiber fabric).


Page 6
TL 522 26: 2004-02
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
Type C
Type D
Type E
Type F
7.3
Wear behavior for decorative nonwoven
microfiber fabric acc. to DIN EN ISO 12947-1
see Section 5.6
Photographic standard 2 (maximum deviation sample)
Gray-scale level 3-4 acc. to DIN EN 20105-A02.
8
Soiling and cleaning behavior of the decorative
material
acc. to PV 3353
Vacuum behavior: Contrast acc. to gray-scale level ≥ 3 DIN EN 20105-A02.
Textiles cleaner: Contrast acc. to gray-scale level ≥ 4.5 DIN EN 20105-A02.
For PVC film acc. to TL 481.
For nonwoven microfiber fabric acc. to TL 523 10.
9
Behavior upon treatment with petroleum ether
see Section 5.7
No ring formation following evaporation of the petroleum ether, no change in color
of the unused material and no bleeding of the cloth, slight pilling acc. to
EMPA*) photographic standard W3 grade 4 to 5 is permissible.
9.1
Behavior upon treatment with detergent
The material must be able to be cleaned with aqueous surfactant solution
and commercial detergents without forming a ring.
10
Compatibility with sun shade film acc. to
PV 3355
72 h / +115 °C in mechanically circulated air
Visible discoloration of the PVC film is not permitted.
11
Burning behavior
acc. to US Regulation 571.302
Acc. to TL 1010 (if specified in drawing and/or release).
12
Flexural rigidity according to PV 3950
If specified in the drawing, the limit values specified shall be adhered to
for the areas selected in the drawing .
                                                
*) EMPA = Eidgenössische Materialprüfungs- und Forschungsanstalt (Federal Material Testing and Research Institute, Switzerland)


Page 7
TL 522 26: 2004-01
5 
Notes on testing
5.1 
Material
The identity test of the PUR foamed plastic can be carried out by means of infrared spectrometry
and pyrolysis gas chromatography.
5.2 
Glass fiber content
The foam-backed face fabric is mechanically separated from the overall structure. The ignition
residue on the substrate is subsequently determined after 1 h at +625 °C. A minimum of three
single values for a weight of approx. 5 g must be determined.
5.3 
Adhesion
Peel force based on 5 cm specimen width. Splitting of the specimen at values below the required
lower limits is only permissible if it occurs outside the adhesive bond (e.g. in the foamed plastic).
The tests are carried out between the glass-fiber nonwoven and PUR foamed plastic. The
requirements apply to both glass-fiber nonwoven layers.
5.4 
Abrasion
Sections of decorative material are loosened mechanically from the slightly deformed areas of the
backed assembly part and any attached substrate material is mostly removed. Round specimens
(100 cm2) are punched out of the loosened decorative material and clamped in the specimen
holder with a substrate of wool felt according to TL 380 and stressed according to the requirements
of the applicable TL standard for decorative material.
5.5 
Rotary abrasion test
Round specimens (100 cm2) are punched out of the loosened decorative material and abraded
against undyed nettle cloth using the Schopper machine.
Specimen curvature
5 mm
Abrasion surface
50 cm2
Pressure force
9.81 N
Revolutions
1,000
Size of nettle cloth specimen
approx. (20 x 9.5) cm
The nettle cloth specimen shall be clamped into the holding fixture on the test machine together
with a wool felt pad of the same size acc. to TL 380.
Nettle cloth corresponding to ECE cotton fabric according to DIN EN ISO 105–X12.
5.6 
Wear behavior
Photographic standard can be obtained from the company ALCANTARA, 20138 Milano,
Sede-Via Meceante 86, Italy.
5.7 
Behavior upon treatment with petroleum ether
Boiling range according to DIN 51751: +78 °C to +80 °C.


Seite 8
TL 522 26: 2004-02
6 
Referenced standards*)
TL 380
Wool Felt for Testing Purposes; Material Requirements
TL 481
PVC Foam Film; Material Requirements
TL 1010
Materials for Vehicle Interiors; Flammability, Material Requirements
TL 523 10
Nonwoven Microfiber Fabric; Material Requirements
PV 1303
Non-Metallic Materials; Exposure Test of Passenger Compartment
Components
PV 2005
Vehicle Parts; Testing of Resistance to Environmental Cycle Test
PV 2034
Nonmetallic Flat Items; Roller Peel Test
PV 3353
Vehicle Interior Trim Surfaces; Soiling and Cleaning Behavior
PV 3355
PVC Parts; Contact Heat Aging
PV 3907
Textiles; Brush Abrasion test
PV 3950
ASSY Molded Headlining; Bending Resistance Testing
VW 011 55
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 501 80
Components in Passenger Compartment; Emission Behavior
VW 501 90
Components of the Vehicle Interior Trim; Colorimetric Evaluation
VW 911 01
Vehicle Environmental Standard; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids;
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
DIN 50014
Climates and their Technical Application; Standard Atmospheres
DIN 51751
Testing of Fluid Mineral-Oil Hydrocarbons – Determination of the Distillation
Range
DIN EN 20105-A02
Textiles – Tests for Colour Fastness – Part A02: Grey Scale for Assessing
Change in Colour
DIN EN 20105-A03
Textiles – Tests for Colour Fastness – Part A03: Grey Scale for Assessing
Staining
DIN EN ISO 105-X12
Textiles – Tests for Colour Fastness – Part X12: Colour Fastness to
Rubbing
DIN EN ISO 12947-1
Textiles – Determination of the Abrasion Resistance of Fabrics by the
Martindale Method – Part 1: Martindale Abrasion Testing Apparatus
                                                
*)
In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
