# TL52296_EN_2002-07-01.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 55 36 1 
July 2002 
 
ASSY Dashboard and Knee Bar 
Material Requirements 
TL 
522 96 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: dashboard, instrument panel, knee bar, knee protection 
 
 
Page 1 of 13 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards Dept. 
I/EK-36  Hr. Hauck 
I/ET-31          Tel: +49-841-89-33904 
Gradl 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standard Department of the Volkswagen Group,. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
 
Contents 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Page 
1 
General requirements..................................................................................................... 2 
1.1 
Classification of load zones ............................................................................................ 2 
1.2 
Material composition....................................................................................................... 2 
1.3 
Appearance .................................................................................................................... 2 
1.4 
Material restrictions, avoidance of hazardous substances ............................................. 2 
1.5 
Conditioning.................................................................................................................... 3 
1.6 
Validity of requirements .................................................................................................. 3 
1.7 
Acceptance requirements............................................................................................... 3 
1.8 
Material code .................................................................................................................. 3 
2 
Requirements for individual dashboard components...................................................... 3 
2.1 
Skin................................................................................................................................. 3 
2.2 
Substrate material........................................................................................................... 5 
3 
Requirements for the total structure ............................................................................... 6 
3.1 
Requirements in as-received condition........................................................................... 6 
3.2 
Aging tests...................................................................................................................... 7 
3.3 
Burning behavior acc. to US Law 571.302 ................................................................... 10 
4 
Test matrix: aging and mechanical tests ...................................................................... 11 
4.1 
Sintered PVC skin......................................................................................................... 11 
4.2 
Sintered TPU skin......................................................................................................... 12 
5 
Referenced standards .................................................................................................. 13 
 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to the May 1994 issue: 
─ Technical Supply Specification (TL standard) completely revised 
Previous issues 
TL 522 96: 1985-11; 1989-07; 1991-09; 1994-05 
 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 


Page 2 
TL 522 96: 2002-07 
D 
1 
General requirements 
1.1 
Classification of load zones 
The load-zone assignment of the component to be sampled must be agreed upon with the relevant 
releasing party prior to sampling. 
1.1.1 Zone 1 
Dashboard and areas exposed to direct sunlight. 
1.1.2 Zone 2 
Knee bar, glove compartment and areas exposed to indirect sunlight. 
1.2 
Material composition 
Acc. to drawing 
Decorative material  
e.g.: integral skin, deep-drawing skin 
Padding 
 
 
e.g.: PUR foam 
Substrate material 
 
e.g.: thermoplastic material, formed natural fiber material 
Modifications to the material formulation require approval and must be sampled. 
The formulations of the materials used (decorative material, padding, substrate) shall be identified 
by performing suitable tests (e.g. torsion pendulum test acc. to DIN EN ISO 6721-2, IR 
spectroscopy) and disclosed if need be. 
The material groups used (e.g. isocyanates, polyols, phtalates, stearates from parting agents) must 
be comprehensible and identifiable for Volkswagen AG. 
The materials used must each meet the required limit values for decorative material, padding and 
substrate acc. to VW 501 80 or Ingolstadt Laboratory Guideline for Use No. 3211, respectively (see 
section 3.1.6). 
1.3 
Appearance 
The dashboard must not exhibit any surface flaws perceptible to the naked eye. 
- The following surface flaws are not permissible: 
Pores, shiny areas, color variations, differences in grain, bendings, blisters, visible/perceptible 
voids, processing-agent residues, coat formation on decorative surface 
- The predetermined breaking point for the airbag must not be visible at any angle of view. 
If rework is permissible for voids, the respective areas and the performance of the rework is to be 
agreed upon with the releasing department in advance. 
1.4 
Material restrictions, avoidance of hazardous substances 
Avoidance of hazardous substances acc. to Volkswagen standard VW 911 01. 
For the list of hazardous substances see VW 911 01 Appendix 1 (Vehicle Environmental Standard; 
List of Substances Banned from Use / Subject to Mandatory Declaration) 


Page 3 
TL 522 96: 2002-07 
D 
1.5 
Conditioning 
Prior to testing, the specimens must be conditioned for at least 24 h in the DIN 50 014-23/50-2 
standard climate. 
1.6 
Validity of requirements 
The numerical values apply to each individual measurement. 
1.7 
Acceptance requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes acc. to VW 011 55. 
1.8 
Material code 
Part identification acc. to VDA1 260 
2 
Requirements for individual dashboard components 
2.1 
Skin 
Specimens 
The tests described in section 2.1.2 shall be performed on specimens taken from plane, grained 
areas of the total structure (decorative material, padding, substrate). 
For the tests described in sections 2.1.1 and 2.1.3 to 2.1.5 it suffices to use skins. 
2.1.1 Skin thickness and predetermined breaking point for airbag 
Testing acc. to DIN EN ISO 2286-3; skin thickness acc. to requirements called out in drawing. 
Design and geometry of predetermined breaking point acc. to requirements called out in drawing or 
performance specifications. 
2.1.2 Breaking strength and elongation at break 
Breaking strength acc. to DIN EN ISO 527, part 1 and 2, specimen shape 5 (part 3) 
If required by the specimen shape, specimen no. 5A described in DIN EN ISO 527-2 may be used 
as an alternative after agreement of the testing parties.  
2.1.2.1 Quasi-static tensile test 
v = 100 mm/min, testing in DIN 50 014-23/50-2 standard climate 
2.1.2.1.1 Breaking stress and elongation at break 
The requirements for the respective materials and dashboards are defined in a test matrix. This 
test matrix (see sections 4.1 and 4.2) specifies mechanical test and aging combinations. 
The requirements vary acc. to the material used. 
                                                
1 German Association of the Automotive Industry 


Page 4 
TL 522 96: 2002-07 
D 
2.1.2.2 Dynamic tensile test 
Drop weight testing acc. to PV 1305, v = 10 m/s 
Note: The tests are not carried out for PVC materials. 
2.1.2.2.1 Testing in DIN 50 014-23/50-2 standard climate 
The requirements for the respective materials and dashboards are defined in a test matrix. This 
test matrix (see sections 4.1 and 4.2) specifies the mechanical test and aging combinations. 
2.1.2.2.2 Testing on cooled specimens < -10 °C 
The requirements for the respective materials and dashboards are defined in a test matrix. This 
test matrix (see sections 4.1 and 4.2) specifies the mechanical test and aging combinations. 
2.1.2.2.3 Testing on cooled specimens < -35 °C 
The requirements for the respective materials and dashboards are defined in a test matrix. This 
test matrix (see sections 4.1 and 4.2) specifies the mechanical test and aging combinations. 
2.1.3 Abrasion behavior 
Crockmeter test acc. to PV 3906 
2.1.3.1 100 strokes, dry 
No change of color or surface structure. 
Bleeding of rubbing cloth: max. ≥ grade 4, gray-scale level acc. to DIN EN ISO 105-A03 
2.1.3.2 10 strokes, wet with cleaning agent 
Ethanol, petroleum ether, aqueous solution of surface-active agent, e.g. Pril®, ammoniacal 
alcoholic solution, e.g. Ajax® 
No change of color or surface structure. 
Bleeding of rubbing cloth: max. ≥ grade 4, gray-scale level acc. to DIN EN ISO 105-A03 


Page 5 
TL 522 96: 2002-07 
D 
2.1.4 Resistance to agents 
Testing by means of “drop test” 
Drops of approx. 0.1 ml of the cleaning agents stated in section 2.1.3.2 are applied to the surface 
using a pipette. After allowing a period of 10 min for the medium to work in, the specimens are 
dried for 30 min at 60 °C in mechanically circulated air. Specimen evaluation after 24 h. 
No change of color or surface structure permissible. Changes in degree of glossiness are to be 
evaluated only if they cannot be removed with a damp cloth. 
Changes in degree of glossiness are permissible if agreed upon with the releasing laboratory. 
2.1.5 Extracting individual formulation components 
This test is not required for integral PVC skins or TPO films. 
A skin segment of (10 x 5) cm is aged for 96 h at 40 °C in distilled water (e.g. mechanical 
circulation oven).  
The specimen is immersed with approx. 50 % of its total surface into an open glass container (e.g. 
bowl as described in PV 3900). If there is any loss of water in the bowl, the lost amount shall be 
replaced. 
After aging, there must not be any coating on the skin. 
2.2 
Substrate material 
The substrate material properties shall be tested acc. to the respective Technical Supply 
Specification for the material or the drawing entry. 
2.2.1 Flexural strength 
Test acc. to DIN EN ISO 178 
Max. change ± 10 % after aging at elevated temperature acc. to section 3.2.1 as compared to 
substrate values from before aging. 
2.2.2 Impact resistance 
Testing acc. to DIN EN ISO 179-1 
Max. change ± 10 % after aging at elevated temperature acc. to section 3.2.1 as compared to 
substrate values from before aging. If the requirement for the part in unused condition is “no 
fracture”, this also applies to testing on aged specimens. 
2.2.3 Notched impact strength 
Testing acc. to DIN EN ISO 179-1 
Max. change ± 10 % after aging at elevated temperature acc. to section 3.2.1 as compared to 
substrate values from before aging. If the requirement for the part in unused condition is “no 
fracture”, this also applies to testing on aged specimens. 


Page 6 
TL 522 96: 2002-07 
D 
3 
Requirements for the total structure 
3.1 
Requirements in as-received condition 
3.1.1 Color 
Testing acc. to VW 501 90 
3.1.2 Gloss 
Testing acc. to DIN 67 530 
Desired values acc. to released sample 
3.1.3 Hardness 
Testing acc. to DIN EN ISO 868, measurement on foamed component 
Measurement of initial hardness; (legislative) requirement: Shore hardness A > 50 
3.1.4 Indentation hardness 
Testing acc. to PV 3421 
Important: compression stress-strain characteristics 33.9 N – 10 mm 
The 5 test points are indicated in the drawing (M1 – M5) or are to be agreed upon with the testing 
parties. The indentation hardness must correspond to the released sample at all points. 
The requirements for the respective materials and dashboards are defined in a test matrix. This 
test matrix (see sections 4.1 and 4.2) specifies mechanical test and aging combinations. 
3.1.5 Adhesion between foam and substrate / foam and skin 
The following applies in unused condition as well as after aging (see test matrix, section 4):  
Adhesion between foam and substrate as well as between foam and skin must be uniformly good 
in all areas. 
When the skin is removed from the foam or the foam is removed from the substrate, residual 
portions of foam must remain on the skin / substrate surface (= cohesive fracture in the foam). 
Adhesion between skin and foam is tested in a peel test acc. to PV 2034 in DIN 50 014-23/50-2 
standard climate, traverse speed: 50 mm/min. 
Specimens are to be removed from plane sections of the skin 
The requirements for the respective materials and dashboards are defined in a test matrix. This 
test matrix (see sections 4.1 and 4.2) specifies mechanical test and aging combinations. 
3.1.6 Emission and fogging behavior 
Testing acc. to VW 501 80 
Specimens are to be removed from plane sections. 
Testing is performed separately on decorative material, padding and substrate. 
Fogging tests on decorative material from zone 1 are performed at 120 °C (deviating from 
VW 501 80 and PV 3015). 


Page 7 
TL 522 96: 2002-07 
D 
3.1.7 Low-temperature elasticity 
Testing is only performed on PVC skins. 
Ball drop test acc. to PV 3905 
Removal of test sections with a size of (100 x 100) mm from the finished part acc. to drawing. 
Testing is performed without a backing. 
Drop height: 230 mm 
Requirement: No fracture of skin in low-temperature test at -20 °C 
optionally 
Impact penetration test acc. to DIN EN ISO 6603-1 
Removal of test sections with a size of (80 x 80) mm from the finished part acc. to drawing. 
Requirement: No fracture of skin in low-temperature test at -20 °C. 
3.2 
Aging tests 
If not otherwise specified or agreed upon between the testing parties, finished parts are to be 
tested. Test equipment installation acc. to as-installed position of finished part in vehicle. 
For natural materials (such as leather) different test conditions may be specified, see requirements 
given in performance specifications for the respective material. 
For combinations of aging and mechanical tests see the test matrix (sections 4.1 and 4.2). 
Requirements for appearance 
The following requirements (analogous to section 3.2.1) apply to agings acc. to section 3.2.1 
through 3.2.5.2.2. 
─ The dashboard must not exhibit any surface flaws perceptible to the naked eye. 
─ Surface flaws such as pores, shiny areas, color variations, differences in grain, bendings, 
blisters, visible and/or perceptible voids, processing-agent residues or coat formation on the 
decorative surface are not permissible. 
─ The predetermined breaking point for the airbag must not be visible at any angle of view. 
─ Changes such as distortion of the total structure, warping on contours and radii, surface marks 
due to voids, blistering or blooming are not permissible after aging. Maximum deviation samples 
are specified if necessary. 
─ Minor changes in color and glossiness acc. to released sample are permissible. Color shift is 
not permitted. Tolerance zones are specified if necessary (measurement acc. to section 3.1.1 
and section 3.1.2). 


Page 8 
TL 522 96: 2002-07 
D 
3.2.1 Heat aging 
3.2.1.1 Zone 1 
Aging for 500 hours at 120 °C in mechanically circulated air 
Requirements for appearance acc. to section 3.2 as well as acc. to test matrix evaluation (see 
section 4.1 and 4.2). 
Changes in shape and/or distortions of the finished part are not evaluated. 
3.2.1.2 Zone 2 
Aging for 500 hours at 100 °C in mechanically circulated air 
Requirements for appearance acc. to section 3.2 as well as acc. to test matrix evaluation (see 
section 4.1 and 4.2). 
Changes in shape and/or distortions of the finished part are not evaluated. 
3.2.2 Environmental cycle test  
3.2.2.1 Zone 1 
12 cycles (= 144 h) aging acc. to PV 1200 
If agreed upon with the testing parties, 60 cycles aging acc. to PV 2005 is possible as an 
alternative. 
Requirements for appearance acc. to section 3.2 as well as acc. to test matrix evaluation (see 
section 4.1 and 4.2). 
3.2.2.2 Zone 2 
8 cycles (= 96 h) aging acc. to PV 1200 
If agreed upon with the testing parties, 40 cycles aging acc. to PV 2005 is possible as an 
alternative. 
Requirements for appearance acc. to section 3.2 as well as acc. to test matrix evaluation (see 
section 4.1 and 4.2). 
3.2.3 Moisture aging 
3.2.3.1  “Pocking test” 
Zone 1, zone 2 
Aging for 500 h at 70 °C and 95 % relative humidity 
Requirements for appearance acc. to section 3.2. 
3.2.3.2 Moisture condensate constant atmosphere 
Zone 1, zone 2 
Aging for 500 h in moisture condensate constant atmosphere acc. to DIN 50 017 KK. 
Requirements for appearance acc. to section 3.2. 


Page 9 
TL 522 96: 2002-07 
D 
3.2.4 Fastness to high-temperature light acc. to PV 1303 and DIN 75 202 
3.2.4.1 Zone 1 
Testing: 5 periods acc. to PV 1303 
Surface changes: max. ≥ grade 4; gray-scale level acc. to DIN EN 20105-A03 
3.2.4.2 Zone 2 
Testing: 3 periods acc. to PV 1303 
Surface changes: max. ≥ grade 4; gray-scale level acc. to DIN EN 20105-A03 
3.2.4.3 Testing: 10 periods acc. to PV 1303 
Zone 1, zone 2 
No evaluation of appearance; evaluation of mechanical properties acc. to test matrix (see section 
4.1 and 4.2). 
3.2.5 Weathering tests 
3.2.5.1 Open-air weathering tests acc. to VW 501 85 
No damages shall occur within the first year of open-air weathering, no significant damages after 2 
years. 
3.2.5.1.1 Tests in vehicles 
Resistance to open air weathering is verified in installed condition in the vehicle. 
Requirements for appearance acc. to section 3.2. 
3.2.5.1.2 Open-air weathering tests on assemblies in test devices 
The parts are installed on corresponding module brackets and tested in conditions corresponding 
to the as-installed position in radiation boxes made of glass. All add-on parts are to be mounted; 
otherwise, the openings designated for these parts are to be closed. 
System release for new materials and technologies: 
If materials, systems or manufacturing processes are used that have not already been in use within 
the VW group, documentation of 3-year weathering resistance is required.  
In order to save time, the components may be transferred between the Northern and the Southern 
hemisphere, so that they can be exposed to 3 summer periods within 1.5 years.  
Requirements for appearance acc. to section 3.2. 
3.2.5.2 Weather simulation acc. to VW 501 85 and DIN 75 220 (sunshine simulation) 
Zone 1, zone 2 
360 h dry-cycle and subsequent 240 h moist-cycle testing acc. to Z-IN1 stated in DIN 75 220, 
optionally 240 h acc. to D-IN1-T stated in DIN 75 220. 


Page 10 
TL 522 96: 2002-07 
D 
3.2.5.2.1 Tests in vehicles 
Parts are tested in installed condition in the vehicle. 
No damages may occur within one test cycle acc. to DIN 75 220 (performed in a test system 
certified by the concerned group brand). 
Requirements for appearance acc. to section 3.2. 
3.2.5.2.2 Weather simulation on assemblies in testing devices 
The parts are installed on corresponding module brackets and tested in radiation boxes made of 
glass in conditions corresponding to the as-installed position. All add-on parts are to be mounted; 
otherwise, the openings designated for these parts are to be closed. 
Requirements for appearance acc. to section 3.2. 
3.3 
Burning behavior acc. to US Law 571.302 
Testing acc. to TL 1010 (if specified in drawing or release) 
