# TL52659.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 55126 
February 2007 
PVC Leatherette and PVC Foam Film Permanently 
Bonded to Interior Vehicle Components 
Material Requirements 
TL 
52659 
Konzernnorm 
6 Types: A, B, C, D, E, F 
 
Descriptors: 
PVC, foam film, PVC foam film, film, lining, dashboard, leatherette, upholstery 
cover, foamed leatherette, seat, in situ, insert, gearshift knob, covering, 
molded backing, foam backing, wood fiber molding compound, door trim panel, 
side trim panel 
D 
 
Page 1 of 7 
Fachverantwortung/Technical responsibility 
Normung/Standards 
 
K-GQL-1/4 
Peters 
K-GQL-1 
Dr. Schilling 
E2TC/4 
Ute Hager-Süß 
E2TC Terlinden 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-28120 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-49035 
 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 01.05 
Preface 
Contents of Technical Supply Specification TL 52207 adopted for type A, TL 481 (no index) for type 
B and TL 52336-A for type C. 
1 
Scope 
This TL standard establishes material requirements for leatherette and PVC foam film that are 
permanently bonded to interior vehicle components. 
─ 
TL 52659-A 
PVC foam film for dashboards made of wood-fiber molding 
compounds 
─ 
TL 52659-B 
PVC foam film for door trim panels 
─ 
TL 52659-C 
PVC foam film for door trim panels (with high increase in film 
surface or haptic demands) 
─ 
TL 52659-D 
PVC leatherette, general 
─ 
TL 52659-E 
PVC leatherette for door and side trim panel inserts  
─ 
TL 52659-F 
PVC leatherette for foam backed components of the seat system 
2 
Description 
Description example for a PVC foam film: 
PVC foam film acc. to TL 52659-B 
Description example for a PVC leatherette: 
PVC leatherette acc. to TL 52659-E 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 01155. 
Emission behavior according to VW 50180. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 91101. 
Burning behavior according to TL 1010. 
In addition to the requirements stipulated in this TL standard, the specifications for the respective 
components shall apply within the framework of component sampling (e.g., TL 496 for door trim 
panels). Roll stock does not need to be tested separately; component testing is sufficient. 
 
The English translation is believed to be accurate.In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
Numerical notation according to ISO practice (see VW 01000). 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 52659: 2007-02 
D 
3.2 
Marking according to VDA1 260 
>PVC< 
3.3 
Conditioning 
Prior to testing, the specimens shall be conditioned for at least 24 h in the standard climate as 
specified in DIN 50014 – 23/50-2. 
3.4 
Evaluation of measurement results 
The required numerical values apply to each individual measurement. 
3.5 
Appearance 
The material must perform correctly under constant processing conditions during adhesion, deep-
drawing, back-molding, back-foaming and deformation processes. In addition, the foam film in the 
finished state must maintain a stable shape and remain free of cracking in the temperature range 
from -30 °C to +120 °C, and in the sunlight simulation according to DIN 75220. A color shift is not 
permissible. Changes in the degree of glossiness are permissible according to released sample. 
Polyester-PUR foam is the only acceptable material for laminating leatherette during later 
processing steps. 
3.6 
Physiological compatibility 
The materials must be physiologically harmless, i.e., they must not contain substances that induce 
skin irritation. Substances that are emitted at elevated temperatures, e.g. plasticizers and 
stabilizers, must be toxicologically safe. 
3.7 
Material 
Plasticized PVC, heat- and UV-stabilized according to released sample. 
3.8 
Design and structure 
Compact grained top coat; foam layer with uniform structure and pore size; film closed underneath. 
Grain and color pattern must be uniform. The material must be free of foreign matter or substances 
that could negatively impact the high-frequency weldability and the bond hardenability. The color 
must not change when the material is stretched; in addition, the material must not show any 
distortion after unrolling. It must be possible to process it properly, i.e., according to the assembly 
working conditions. In addition, the structures of the lower layers must not be visible on the surface 
(writing effects). 
3.9 
Color and grain 
Acc. to specification. 
4 
Properties 
See Table 1. 
                                                
1 VDA = German Association of the Automotive Industry 


Page 3 
TL 52659: 2007-02 
D 
Table 1 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
Requirement 
 
 
 
TL 52659-A 
TL 52659-B 
TL 52659-C 
TL 52659-D 
TL 52659-E 
TL 52659-F 
1 
Color 
 
According to requirement 
2 
Thickness 
mm 
According to drawing 
3 
Weight 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1 
Weight per unit area 
see Section 5.1 
g/cm2 
1450 ± 100 
950 ± 50 
1075 ± 50 
According to drawing 
3.2 
Texturized polyester-knit fabric 
g/cm2 
– 
≥ 80 
4 
Tear strength per 5 cm specimen width 
see Section 5.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1 
As-received condition 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1.1 Length 
N 
≥ 60 
≥ 350 
4.1.2 Width 
N 
≥ 250 
4.2 
After aging at elevated temperature 
168 h at +120 °C, mechanically circulated air 
see Section 5.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2.1 Length 
N 
± 15% as compared to X  as-received condition 
4.2.2 Width 
N 
± 15% as compared to X  as-received condition 
5 
Tensile strength 
see Section 5.2 
As-received condition 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.1 
Length 
N/mm2 
≥ 4 
≥ 3 
5.2 
Width 
N/mm2 
≥ 4 
≥ 3 
6 
Elongation acc. to PV 3909 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.1 
Static elongation 
50 N load 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.1.1 Length 
% 
– 
≥ 10 
≥ 15 
– 
22 ± 5 
30 ± 5 
6.1.2 Width 
% 
– 
≥ 15 
≥ 20 
– 
45 ± 12 
35 ± 10 
6.2 
Permanent elongation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2.1 Length 
% 
≤ 3 
≤ 2 
≤ 3 
6.2.2 Width 
% 
≤ 6 
≤ 2 
≤ 6 


Page 4 
TL 52659: 2007-02 
D 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
Requirement 
 
 
 
TL 52659-A 
TL 52659-B 
TL 52659-C 
TL 52659-D 
TL 52659-E 
TL 52659-F 
7 
Low-temperature behavior 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.1 
Ball drop test acc. to PV 3905 
-30 °C, ball drop height 230 mm 
 
No tearing or breaking of specimens. 
7.2 
Fold-bend test acc. to DIN EN 1876-1 
8 h at -30 °C 
(specimens conditioned in device) 
 
No cracking along bending edge. 
8 
Ability of color pigments within the film to resist 
reaction with volatile amines 
as specified in Test Specification PV 3944. 
 
No visible red discoloration. 
Change from initial color ∆a* ≤ 2 E as specified in VW 50190. 
9 
Color fastness 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.1 
In the presence of light, acc. to PV 1303 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.1.1 3 exposure periods 
 
Gray-scale level ≥ 4 acc. to DIN EN 20105-A02. 
9.1.2 5 exposure periods 
 
Gray-scale level ≥ 4 acc. to DIN EN 20105-A02. 
9.2 
In the presence of water (filter paper test) 
see  Section 5.4 
 
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to DIN EN 20105-A03; intermediate level 4,5 permissible 
9.3 
In the presence of cleaning agents (drop test) 
see Sections 5.5 and 5.6 
 
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to DIN EN 20105-A03; intermediate level 4,5 permissible 
9.4 
When subject to abrasion (Schopper test), face 
fabric 
see Section 5.7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.4.1 After 1 000 rotations at a contact pressure of 10 N  
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to DIN EN 20105-A03; intermediate level 4,5 permissible 
9.4.2 After 2 000 rotations at a contact pressure of 20 N  
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to DIN EN 20105-A03; intermediate level 4,5 permissible 
9.5 
Elevated-temperature behavior 
168 h at +120 °C, mechanically circulated air 
see Section 5.3 
 
The film must not become hard and brittle and must not roll up; it must not undergo 
negative changes with respect to its condition upon release. 
Gray-scale level 3 D acc. to DIN EN 20105-A02; no color shift, however. 
 
 


Page 5 
TL 52659: 2007-02 
D 
5 
Notes on testing 
5.1 
Weight per unit area 
Determination of the total weight according to DIN EN ISO 2286-2 on at least three round 
specimens of 100 cm2 taken across the width of the roll. To determine the weight per unit area of 
the compact top coat, remove a layer approx. 1,5 mm thick using a splitting machine. Convert the 
resulting weights to 1 m2. 
5.2 
Tear strength, tensile strength 
Tensile tests according to DIN EN ISO 527-2, test rate v = 100 mm/min. 
Determination of the tear strength with standard test specimen (traverse speed: 100 mm/min; 
distance between clamps of the test device: 100 mm) on a minimum of three specimens taken 
parallel to the courses. 
The specimens shall be taken over the total width of the roll. To avoid cracks in the specimens near 
the clamps of the tensile test machine, prepare "shoulder" strips using a template equivalent to the 
shape of the standard test specimen (see Figure 1). 
 
Figure 1 


Page 6 
TL 52659: 2007-02 
D 
5.3 
Elevated-temperature behavior 
DIN A4-sized2 specimens shall be taken parallel to the threads in lengthwise and crosswise 
directions. After that, stamp both broad sides of the specimens using a double punch with four 
holes spaced approximately 25 mm from the edge. These holes are used to hold the hooks welded 
to the round bars (see Figure 2). 
For all but material type C, attach a 6-mm Ø round bar with a weight of approximately 80 g to the 
"bottom" of each test specimen. This is done to weigh down the sections that are hanging 
vertically. 
Next, age the specimens at +120 °C with mechanically circulated air at a distance of 50 mm to 
each other. At the end of the high-temperature test and subsequent conditioning in standard 
climate according to DIN 50014–23/50-2, remove the tearing and bending specimens from the 
sections according to Figure 2 (specimen shape drawn before the high-temperature test). 
 
Figure 2 
5.4 
Color fastness in the presence of water 
Wet a (50 x 50)-mm specimen with approx. 2 cm3 deionized water, place between filter paper 
(Schleicher & Schüll, Blauband 5893) and glass plates and load with 50 N for one hour. Assess the 
filter paper for bleeding using the gray-scale as specified in DIN EN 20105-A03. 
5.5 
Resistance to cleaning agents 
The surface material in the total structure must be resistant to the following cleaning agents: 
─ 
0,5 vol. % aqueous surfactant solution, e.g., dishwashing liquid 
─ 
A cleaning solution (such as a window cleaner) containing ammonia and alcohol, undiluted 
─ 
Petroleum ether (special boiling point II according to DIN 51631, +80 °C/+100 °C) 
─ 
Methylated spirit acc. to TL 52117 
─ 
Volatile solvent-naphta with anionic surfactants, e.g. “Hakutex 10” made by Klute. 
                                                
2 DIN A4 = German standard paper size 


Page 7 
TL 52659: 2007-02 
D 
5.6 
Drop test 
Pipette 0,1 ml drops onto the surface. After allowing a period of 10 min for the medium to work in, 
allow to dry for 30 min at +60 °C in mechanically circulated air. 
Evaluate the surface 24 h after treatment. 
5.7 
Color fastness under abrasive conditions 
Abrasion test on 100-cm2, round specimen of the leatherette against ECE cotton fabric according to 
DIN EN ISO 105-X12. 
Specimen curvature 
5 mm 
Abrasion surface 
50 cm2 
Size of nettle cloth specimen 
280 mm x 95 mm 
Clamp the ECE cotton fabric into the holding fixture on the test machine together with a wool felt 
pad of similar size as specified in TL 380. 
6 
Referenced standards3 
TL 380 
Wool Felt for Testing Purposes; Material Requirements 
TL 1010 
Materials for Vehicle Interiors; Flammability, Material Requirements 
TL 52117 
Spirit, Denatured; Lubricant Requirements 
PV 1303 
Non-Metallic Materials; Exposure Test of Passenger Compartment 
Components  
PV 3905 
Organic Materials; Ball Drop Test 
PV 3909 
Non-Metallic Planar Fabrics; Measurement of Static and Permanent 
Elongation 
PV 3944 
PVC Sun Visor Film; Amine Discoloration 
VW 01155 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 50180 
Components in Passenger Compartment; Emission Behavior 
VW 50190 
Components of the Vehicle Interior Trim; Colorimetric Evaluation 
VW 91101 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN 50014 
Climates and their Technical Application; Standard Atmospheres 
DIN 51631 
Mineral Spirits – Special Boiling Point Spirits – Requirements 
DIN 75220 
Ageing of Automotive Components in Solar Simulation Units 
DIN EN 1876-1 
Rubber or Plastics Coated Fabrics – Low Temperature Tests – Part 1: 
Bending Test 
DIN EN 20105-A02 
Textiles – Tests for Colour Fastness – Part A02: Grey Scale for Assessing 
Change in Color 
DIN EN 20105-A03 
Textiles; Tests for Colour Fastness - Part A03: Grey Scale for Assessing 
Staining 
DIN EN ISO 105-X12 Textiles; Tests for Colour Fastness; Part X12: Colour Fastness to Rubbing 
DIN EN ISO 527-2 
Plastics – Determination of Tensile Properties – Part 2: Test Conditions for 
Moulding and Extrusion Plastics 
DIN EN ISO 2286-2 
Rubber- or Plastics-Coated Fabrics - Determination of Roll Characteristics - 
Part 2: Methods for Determination of Total Mass per Unit Area, Mass per 
Unit Area of Coating and Mass per Unit Area of Substrate  
VDA 260 
Motor Vehicle Components; Marking of Materials 
                                                
3 In this Section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
