# TL52451.pdf

Painting of Metallic Decorative Add-on Parts for the Exterior
Requirements
Previous issues
TL 52451: 1996-06, 1998-07, 2003-05
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to TL 52451: 2003-05:
–
Table 2, No. 3 "Salt spray test" removed
–
Table 2, No. 3.2 "Condensed water test", requirement expanded
–
Table 2, No. 8.1 "Scratch resistance", requirement changed
–
Standard restructured
–
Referenced documents updated
–
Table in Section A.1 expanded
Scope
This standard applies to paintwork on exterior add-on parts with metallic substrate that are in the
visible area and thus must fulfill predominantly decorative and functional requirements, e.g., roof rails,
wiper arms, pillar trim.
Description
Paintwork according to TL 52451, with additional specification of the surface protection according to
Volkswagen Standard VW 13750, if required.
Example 1:
Paintwork acc. to TL 52451
Structure according to Ofl-x630 (cathodic electrocoat) + powder top coat
Example 2:
Paintwork acc. to TL 52451
Structure according to Ofl-x632 (cathodic electrocoat) + powder top coat
1  
2  
Group Standard
TL 52451
Issue 2008-08
Class. No.:
50242
Descriptors:
paint, paintwork, surface protection, multicoat paint, metal part, decorative, top coat, wiper arm, roof rails,
pillar trim
Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
Numerical notation acc. to ISO practice.
Page 1 of 9
Technical responsibility
Standards department
GQL-LP/2
Marina Engelking
Tel.: +49-5361-9-41793
GQL-LM/2
Dr. Olaf Claus
Tel.: +49-5361-9-194081
GQL-L
Dr. Stephan Eisenberg
EKTC/4 Jürgen Wiesner
EKTC
Tel.: +49-5361-9-29064
Manfred Terlinden
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform "www.vwgroupsupply.com".
© VOLKSWAGEN AG
VWNORM-2007-10f
QUELLE: NOLIS


Requirements
General requirements
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 01155.
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 91101.
A minimum of 10 finished parts are required for complete testing.
The supplier must enclose the information according to Section A.1 and the first-sample or develop‐
ment-sample test report with all parts to be tested.
All areas on the part for which the following requirements do not apply must be marked in the drawing.
Deviating requirements must be specified.
The coating must not be damaged during professional installation.
Appearance
The parts must exhibit a uniform appearance over their entire surface and conform to the drawing
requirements, the color standard, as well as the visual properties according to Table 2. Pores, cracks,
and other flaws that adversely affect the specified appearance are not permissible. Deviations from
this must be specified in the drawing.
Degree of glossiness, color, and structure are to be documented in the first-sample or development-
sample test report.
Open-Air Weathering
All painted components are tested according to VW 50185 (2 years in humid heat and 2 years in dry
heat). The supplier is obligated to remove the cause for complaints occurring during this test and to
improve the paint system.
Paint process
The paint process must be coordinated between the paint shop and paint manufacturer. Both parties
confirm the first-sample test report, meaning that both are responsible for fulfilling the specified re‐
quirements. Responsibilities are broken down as follows:
–
The paint manufacturer provides information on the fulfillment of requirements in the Technical
Supply Specification, processing guidelines, and support regarding the applied paint method.
–
The paint shop provides information on the substrate and pretreatment steps, checks the re‐
quirements at the earliest possible juncture, confirms compliance with the paint manufacturer’s
processing guidelines, and requests support regarding the applied paint method.
The blank manufacturer must provide information regarding the base material (substrate, pretreat‐
ment, paint coats already applied) and ensure its suitability for further paintwork.
Paint structure/coat thicknesses
The coat thicknesses specified in Table 1 (measurement according to DIN EN ISO 1463) only apply
if additional coats are used for the requirement according to VW 13750 or if there is no reference to
a surface according to VW 13750. The specified coat materials must be adhered to in any event.
The total paint coat thickness must not exceed 110 µm in a pure liquid paint structure.
In a structure containing powder paint, a total paint coat thickness of 150 µm must not be exceeded.
3  
3.1  
3.2  
3.3  
3.4  
3.5  
Page 2
TL 52451: 2008-08


Repainting is only possible if the same color is used. The total paint coat thickness in the event of
repainting is limited to a maximum of 160 µm for the pure liquid paint structure and 200 µm for the
powder paint structure. The requirements of TL 52451 must also be fulfilled by means of a reliable
process during repainting.
The paint structure must consist of either:
A primer coat (1) and a single-layer top coat (2) according to Table 1
Or
A primer coat (1) and a dual-layer top coat (3) according to Table 1
In exceptional cases (e.g., powder top coat on pretreated aluminum substrates), a top coat structure
only (according to Table 1 (1) or (2)) can also be chosen; however, this must be expressly stipulated
in the drawing.
Table 1 – Paint coat thicknesses
 
Coat
Coat material
Standard
value
Coat thick‐
ness
(μm)
1. Primer coat
a Cathodic electrocoat
17 to 22
b Heavy coat cathodic dip paint
25 to 35
c Liquid paint filler (binder base as desired)
25 to 35
d Powder filler (binder based on epoxy resin or
polyester resin)
50 to 80
2. 1-layer top coat
a Powder top coat (polyester resin or acrylate resin
base for matte paints, acrylate resin base for high-
gloss paints)
50 to 100
b Top coat (liquid paint, binder base: polyester, poly‐
acrylate, polyurethane)
20 to 40
3. 2-layer top
coat
Color‐
ing
coat
a
Base coat (liquid paint, binder: CAB, acrylate,
melamine, polyester systems)
10 to 20
Clear
coat
b Clear coat (liquid paint, binder: acrylate, polyester)
30 to 50
c Powder clear coat (acrylate resin-based binder; with
use of powders with a polyester resin base, additional
protection in the form of a further liquid clear coat
layer is required)
50 to 100
Page 3
TL 52451: 2008-08


Technological requirements
See Table 2.
The parts must be one week old for the technological tests, or they must be aged before the tests for
24 h at +60 °C. Aging and conditioning: 24 h in the DIN 50014 – 23/50-2 standard climate. Deviations
from this must be noted in the test report.
Table 2
No.
Property
Requirement
1
Optical properties
1.1
Reflectometer value
acc. to DIN EN ISO 2813
Acc. to color template
1.2
Colorimetric evaluation
Acc. to VW 50195
1.3
Structure (standard values for dark,
high-gloss colors), "wave-scan plus"
measurement system, measurement
acc. to the manufacturer’s specifica‐
tionsa)
Horizontal surfaces:
LW < 5
SW 10 to 25
Vertical surfaces:
LW < 13
SW 10 to 30
2
Adhesion
2.1
Crosscut test
acc. to DIN EN ISO 2409 b), c)
Crosscut characteristic value ≤ 1
2.2
Resistance to stone impact
of overall structure according to
DIN EN ISO 20567-1, Method B c)
Characteristic value ≤ 1,5 between the paint coats with indication of the main
separation plane; 
isolated penetrations to the substrate are permissible, however chipping is not
permissible
2.3
Pressure washer test
acc. to PV 1503A or PV 1503B; pro‐
cedure based on consultation with the
respective engineering department
No paint separation
3
Corrosion resistance
Zinc and zinc alloys,
zinc-coated surfaces
Other metallic substrates
3.1
Corrosion cycle test according to
PV 1210 with scribing line acc. to
DIN EN ISO 9227, Section C.4, eval‐
uation acc. to DIN EN ISO 4628-8.
After 10 cycles, loss of adhesion d ≤
1 mm, however not greater than
2,5 mm on any point on the part; after
60 cycles, no blistering and no base
metal corrosion d)
After 30 cycles, loss of adhesion d ≤
2,5 mm, however not greater than
5 mm on any point on the part; after 60
cycles, no blistering and no base met‐
al corrosion d)
3.2
Condensed water test for 240 h in test
atmosphere CH acc. to
DIN EN ISO 6270-2 and subsequent
conditioning in DIN 50014 – 23/50-2
standard climate
- After 2 h, degree of blistering 0 (S0) acc. to DIN EN ISO 4628-1
- No corrosion
- Compliance with the requirement for adhesion (Table 3, No. 2) after 30 min
and 24 h is mandatory
- No optical changes after 24 h compared to the initial condition
4
Resistance to temperature cycling
4.1
Aging at elevated temperature in re‐
circulated air for 240 h at +90 °C ± 2 °C
and subsequent aging for 30 min in
The requirements acc. to Section 3.2 and Table 2, No. 2 must be fulfilled
3.6  
Page 4
TL 52451: 2008-08


No.
Property
Requirement
4.1
the DIN 50014 – 23/50-2 standard cli‐
mate
The requirements acc. to Section 3.2 and Table 2, No. 2 must be fulfilled
4.2
Low-temperature aging for 24 h at
-40 °C ± 3 °C and subsequent aging
for 30 min in the DIN 50014 – 23/50-2
standard climate;
the specimens detailed in Table 2, No.
4.1 are used
The requirements acc. to Section 3.2 and Table 2, No. 2 must be fulfilled
4.3
Impact test using the specimens de‐
tailed in Table 2, No. 4.2 at -40 °C ±
3 °C e)
No chipping or cracks in paint coating
4.4
50 cycles of environmental cycle test
acc. to PV 2005A and subsequent ag‐
ing for 24 h in the DIN 50014 – 23/50-2
standard climate
The requirements acc. to Section 3.2 and Table 2, Nos. 1 and 2 must be fulfilled
5
Resistance to chemicals with respect to
5.1
Lye acc. to PV 3.10.3
No change in the paint surface
for high-gloss coatings a) reduction in glossiness < 10% (20° reflectometer
value acc. to DIN EN ISO 2813)
5.2
Acid acc. to PV 3.16.4
5.3
Transit coating and transit coating re‐
mover f)
No change in the paint surface
5.4
Film sealant acc. to QP R015
Only swellings that are reversible (after 24 h) are permitted; no adhesive
residues after removing the sealant film
5.5
Industrial grade dust remover acc. to
PV 3.10.5
No change in the paint surface for high-gloss coatings g) reduction in glossi‐
ness < 10% (20° reflectometer value acc. to DIN EN ISO 2813)
5.6
FAM test fuel acc. to
DIN EN ISO 2812-3 (procedure with
absorbent material), 10 min at room
temperature
Swellings that are reversible after 24 h are permissible
5.7
Diesel fuel acc. to TL 788 and
DIN EN ISO 2812-3 (procedure with
absorbent material), 1 h at room tem‐
perature
No change in the paint surface
5.8
Fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) acc. to
DIN EN 14214 and
DIN EN ISO 2812-3 (procedure with
absorbent material), 1 h at room tem‐
perature
5.9
Super unleaded gasoline acc. to
DIN EN 228 and DIN EN ISO 2812-3
(procedure with absorbent material),
10 min at room temperature
5.10
Engine oil acc. to TL 52173 (Burrmahl
Castrol oil Code A97075PBC) and
Page 5
TL 52451: 2008-08


No.
Property
Requirement
5.10
DIN EN ISO 2812-4 (spotting proce‐
dure), 16 h at room temperature
No change in the paint surface
5.11
Hydraulic fluid acc. to TL 52146 and
DIN EN ISO 2812-3 (procedure with
absorbent material), 16 h at room tem‐
perature
No change in the paint surface
5.12
Automatic transmission oil acc. to
TL 52162 and DIN EN ISO 2812-3
(procedure with absorbent material),
10 min at room temperature
5.13
Brake fluid acc. to TL 766 and
DIN EN ISO 2812-4 (procedure with
absorbent material), 1 h at room tem‐
perature
Swellings that are reversible after 24 h are permissible
5.14
Coolant acc. to TL 774 and
DIN EN ISO 2812-4 (procedure with
absorbent material), 1 h at room tem‐
perature
No change in the paint surface
5.15
Commercially available nitrocellulose
thinner (applies only to primed after-
service sales parts) acc. to
DIN EN ISO 2812-4 (procedure with
absorbent material), 10 min at room
temperature
6
Light and weather resistance (short-term tests)
6.1
Weathering in humid heat acc. to
PV 3930 (= Florida test), 1 year-cycle
g)
No cracks, no change in color or gloss; adhesion according to Table 2; No. 2
must be fulfilled
6.2
Weathering in humid heat acc. to
PV 3930 (= Florida test), 2 year-cycles
g)
6.3
Weathering in dry heat acc. to
PV 3929 (= Kalahari test), 1 year-cycle
g)
6.4
Weathering in dry heat acc. to
PV 3929 (= Kalahari test), 2 year-cy‐
cles g)
6.5
Resistance of high-gloss top coats a)
to UV radiation acc. to PV 1502,
2 000 h
No visible cracking of the clear coat
7
Resistance to open air weathering
7.1
Weathering in humid heat (Florida), 2
years, acc. to VDA 621-403g)
No visible change in color or gloss, adhesion acc. to Table 2; No. 2 must be
fulfilled, intermediate evaluation after every year-cycle
Page 6
TL 52451: 2008-08


No.
Property
Requirement
7.2
No visible change in color or gloss, adhesion acc. to Table 2; No. 2 must be
fulfilled, intermediate evaluation after every year-cycle
Weathering in dry heat (Kalahari), 2
years according to VDA 621-403  g)
8
Car wash resistance
8.1
Scratch resistance acc. to PV 3.3.3 for
high-gloss coatingsa)
VE ≥ 1 h)
VR ≥ 1 after reflow h)
a)  Top coats with a reflectometer value of ≥ 70 at 60° according to DIN EN ISO 2813 are defined as high-gloss paints.
b)  With crosscut test characteristic values > 1, the result should be verified through further adhesion tests (e.g., stone impact test).
c)  Tesa 4657 must be used as the adhesive tape.
d)  Deviating from this, wiper arms are evaluated according to TL 934.
e)  Impact test according to DIN ISO 4532, however, with a specified testing force of 90 N on a rigid base plate.
f)  A section of the part is coated by immersing in sealant wax (released and used in standard production). After aging the part for 24 h at
room temperature, the wax coat is washed off by agitating the part in hot (+80 °C) kerosene for 3 min.
g)  High-gloss coatings must be cleaned before the evaluation with paint cleaning agent; matte coatings must be cleaned using an aqueous
solution containing tensides.
h)  Reference clear coat ALD 069 050, made by BASF; reference sheets are available from P1O/D.
Referenced documents
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary for application.
In this Section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
PV 1210
Body and Add-on Parts; Corrosion Test
PV 1502
Clear Coat for Dual-Layer Metallic Paint Coatings; Testing for Resistance
to Cracking
PV 1503
Paint Coating of Metallic and Non-Metallic Materials; Pressure Washer
Test
PV 2005
Vehicle Parts; Testing of Resistance to Environmental Cycle Test
PV 3.10.3
Paints and varnishes; Test of resistance to caustic solutions
PV 3.10.5
Paints and Varnishes; Testing of Resistance to Industrial Grade Dust Re‐
movers
PV 3.16.4
Paints and Varnishes; Testing of Acid Resistance
PV 3.3.3
Paints and Varnishes; Testing the Scratch Resistance of Clear Coats
PV 3929
Non-Metallic Materials; Weather Aging in Dry, Hot Climate
PV 3930
Non-Metallic Materials; Weathering in Moist, Hot Climate
QP R015
Self-Adhesive Film; Quality Requirements
TL 52146
Central Hydraulic System Fluid; Lubricant Requirements
TL 52162
Factory-Fill-for-Life Automatic Transmission Fluid; Lubricant Require‐
ments
TL 52173
Factory-Fill Engine Oil SAE 0W-30 with Fuel-Saving Properties for Ex‐
tended Oil Change Intervals; Requirements, Testing
TL 766
Brake Fluid; Material Requirements
4  
Page 7
TL 52451: 2008-08


TL 774
Ethylene Glycol-Based Coolant Additive; Material Requirements
TL 788
Diesel Fuel; Fuel Requirements
TL 934
Windshield Wiper System; Function and Material Requirements
VW 01155
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 13750
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Surface Protection Types, Codes
VW 50185
Vehicle Components; Resistance to Open Air Weathering
VW 50195
Colorimetric Evaluation of Automobile Paint Coatings
VW 91101
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
DIN 50014
–
DIN EN 14214
Automotive fuels - Fatty acid methyl esters (FAME) for diesel engines -
Requirements and test methods
DIN EN 228
Automotive fuels - Unleaded petrol - Requirements and test methods
DIN EN ISO 1463
Metallic and oxide coatings - Measurement of coating thickness - Micro‐
scopical method
DIN EN ISO 20567-1
Paints and varnishes - Determination of stone-chip resistance of coatings
- Part 1: Multi-impact testing
DIN EN ISO 2409
Paints and varnishes - Cross-cut test
DIN EN ISO 2812-3
Paints and varnishes - Determination of resistance to liquids - Part 3:
Method using an absorbent medium
DIN EN ISO 2812-4
Paints and varnishes - Determination of resistance to liquids - Part 4:
Spotting methods
DIN EN ISO 2813
Paints and varnishes - Determination of specular gloss of non-metallic
paint films at 20°, 60° und 85°
DIN EN ISO 4628-1
Paints and varnishes - Evaluation of degradation of coatings - Designation
of quantity and size of defects, and of intensity of uniform changes in ap‐
pearance - Part 1: General introduction and designation system
DIN EN ISO 4628-8
Paints and varnishes - Evaluation of degradation of coatings - Designation
of quantity and size of defects, and of intensity of uniform changes in ap‐
pearance - Part 8: Assessment of degree of delamination and corrosion
around a scribe
DIN EN ISO 6270-2
Paints and varnishes - Determination of resistance to humidity - Part 2:
Procedure for exposing test specimens in condensation-water atmo‐
spheres
DIN EN ISO 9227
Corrosion tests in artificial atmospheres - Salt spray tests
DIN ISO 4532
Vitreous and porcelain enamels - Determination of the resistance of enam‐
elled articles to impact - Pistol test
VDA 621-403
Anstrichtechnische Prüfungen; Prüfung der Wetterbeständigkeit im
Naturversuch (Freibewitterung) (only available in German)
Page 8
TL 52451: 2008-08


 
Supplier information for the test part
1.
Part designations and numbers
2.
Blank manufacturer
3.
Base material (manufacturer, manufacturer designation and VDA (German Association of the
Automotive Industry) designation)
4.
Cleaning and pretreatment methods
5.
Painter, painting location, painting system
6.
Painting date
Paint structure and painting procedure for all coats. See Table A.1 for sample details for a primer
coat.
Table A.1
Primer coat
 
Paint manufacturer
Dupont
Manufacturer’s designation, possibly product da‐
ta sheet
R 50149.6 (not batch number!!)
Water/solvent; single-component/dual-compo‐
nent, powder
Solvent; single-component
Binder base
Epoxide
 
 
For dual-component paint systems, specifica‐
tions for hardener
 
- Manufacturer
BASF
- Manufacturer’s designation, possibly product
data sheet
K 350
- Chemical basis
HDI
- Ratio of base paint to hardener
7 + 1
 
 
Baking temperature
+80 °C
Baking duration
20 min
Desired coating thickness
25 μm
Application method
Pneumatic, manual
Appendix A (informative)  
A.1  
Page 9
TL 52451: 2008-08
