# TL52324.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 55 12 7
April 2004
Elastomer for Supporting Straps
Material Requirements on Component
TL
523 24
Konzernnorm
Types: Without Index (= O), A
Descriptors:
rubber, elastomer, EPDM, ethylene propylene diene rubber, VMQ, silicone
elastomer, supporting strap, exhaust system, exhaust-emission system
Page 1 of 6
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733)
K-QS-31
Dittmann
Tel: -22392
Frau Krenz
Tel: +49-5361-9-48869
Sobanski
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 01.03
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification
TL 523 24: 1997-06:
─ 
Standard restructured
─ 
Type A added
─ 
Compression set not required, tension set added instead
Previous issues
1988-05; 1997-06
1 
Scope
This Technical Supply Specification defines the material requirements on components for two types
of elastomers used for supporting straps in the area of the exhaust system ASSY (suspension):
─ 
TL 523 24:
EPDM elastomer,
─ 
TL 523 24-A:
VMQ silicone elastomer.
2 
Designation
EPDM according to TL 523 24
or
VMQ according to TL 523 24-A
3 
Requirements
3.1 
Basic specifications
Approval of first supply and changes acc. to Volkswagen standard VW 011 55 “Vehicle Supply
Parts – General”.
Avoidance of hazardous substances acc. to VW 911 01 “Vehicle environmental standard”.
20 finished parts of each type are preferable for complete testing. Alternatively, test panels may
be used if the component geometry does not allow the preparation of test specimens from the
finished part.
3.2 
Types
According to drawing.
The English translation is believed to be accurate.
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2
TL 523 24: 2004-04
3.3 
Identification according to VDA*) 260
>EPDM< or >VMQ< respectively.
3.4 
Evaluation of the measuring results
The required numerical values apply to each individual measurement.
3.5 
Material
TL 523 24
Terpolymer consisting of ethylene, propylene and a diene, e.g. dicyclopentadiene.
Saturated polymer main chain with lateral double bonds. Vulcanized with
peroxide (preferred). Ozone-resistant.
TL 523 24-A
Silicone rubber with additional methyl and vinyl groups on polymer main chain.
Ozone and low-temperature resistant.
3.6 
Appearance
The elastomer component shall not display any surface flaws (e.g. inclusions, pimples) or
vulcanization flaws (e.g. tackiness, blistering).
4 
Requirements
See Table 1.
Table 1
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
Type without
index
Type A
1
Density acc. to VDA 675 106
g/cm3
Acc. to sample
Tolerances acc. to VW 2.8.1
2
Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA)
acc. to Test Specification PV 3927
%
Acc. to sample,
see Figure A.1
3
Low-temperature resistance
acc. to VW 2.8.1
24 h at -35 °C
The 125 mm x
10 mm specimens
shall not fracture
and/or display
cracks.
-
3.1
Low-temperature standard value
determined with DSC
acc. to VDA 675 116
°C
≤ 35 (Peak), see Figure A.2.
4
Hardness acc. to VDA 675 202
see Section 5.1
4.1
As-received condition
Shore A
According to drawing
4.2
After aging at elevated temperature
see Section 5.2
Shore A
0 to +10 as
compared to as-
received condition
0 to +8 as
compared to as-
received condition
                                                
*) VDA = Verband der Automobilindustrie (German Association of the Automotive Industry)


Page 3
TL 523 24: 2004-04
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
Type without
index
Type A
5
Tensile strength acc. to VDA 675 205
5.1
As-received condition
N/mm2
> 8
> 6
5.2
After aging at elevated temperature
see Section 5.2
N/mm2
> 6
> 5
6
Elongation at tear acc. to VDA 675 205
see Sections 5.1 and 5.3
6.1
As-received condition
%
> 300 / > 200 / > 150
6.2
After aging at elevated temperature
see Section 5.2
%
> 200 / > 150 / > 100
7
Corrosion behavior
acc. to VDA 675 241
No black discoloration and/or no
aggressive behavior on electrolytic
copper, slight oxidation tint permissible.
8
Abrasion behavior
acc. to VDA 675 235
see Section 5.4
mm3
< 200
9
Tension set acc. to VDA 675 217, method B
see Section 5.5
9.1
As-received condition
94 h at (23 ± 2) °C
%
< 30
< 10
9.2
After aging at elevated temperature
see Section 5.6
22 h at +175 °C
%
< 70
22 h at +200 °C
%
< 25
5 
Notes on testing
5.1 
Hardness
It is preferable to use S3 standard test specimens punched out of finished parts according to
VDA 675 205.
5.2 
Aging at elevated temperature
The standard test specimens according to Section 5.1 shall be aged in a mechanical circulation
oven for 94 h according to VDA 675 310:
─ 
Type without index at +175 °C
─ 
Type A at +200 °C.
Measurements shall be conducted 30 minutes after removal from the oven at (23 ± 2) °C.
5.3 
Elongation at tear
The following hardness ranges apply to the elongation at tear:
─ 
< 50 Shore A
─ 
50 Shore A to 75 Shore A
─ 
> 75 Shore A


Page 4
TL 523 24: 2004-04
5.4 
Abrasion behavior
Plane parallel sections are taken from finished parts for preference.
5.5 
Tension set
Tension set is determined according to VDA 675 217, method B, using trouser test specimens
(measuring approx. 125 mm x 10 mm) under 50% elongation, 45 min holding in deformed state
and subsequent unloading.
Aging at elevated temperature shall take place in a mechanical circulation oven for 22 h each
according to VDA 675 310:
─ 
Type without index at +175 °C
─ 
Type A at +200 °C.
5.6 
Aging at elevated temperature
Aging at elevated temperature shall take place in a natural convection oven according to
DIN 53508. Measurements shall be carried out after 45 min of cooling in deformed state and
subsequent aging for 30 min in unloaded state at (23 ± 2) °C.


Page 5
TL 523 24: 2004-04
6 
Referenced standards*)
PV 3927
Thermogravimetric Analysis for Plastics and Elastomers; Determination:
Plasticizers, Carbon Black
VW 2.8.1
Elastomers; Material Requirements and Testing
VW 011 55
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 911 01
Vehicle Environmental Standard; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids;
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
DIN 53508
Testing of Rubber – Accelerated Ageing
VDA 260
Bauteile von Kraftfahrzeugen; Kennzeichnung der Werkstoffe (currently only
available in German)
VDA 675 106
Elastomer-Bauteile in Kraftfahrzeugen; Prüfverfahren zur Identifikation; Dichte
(currently only available in German)
VDA 675 116
Elastomer-Bauteile in Kraftfahrzeugen; Prüfverfahren zur Identifikation,
Kältemerkmale, Differenz-Scannin-Kalorimetrie (DSC) (currently only available
in German)
VDA 675 202
Elastomer-Bauteile in Kraftfahrzeugen; Prüfverfahren zur Eigenschafts-
bestimmung; Shore A und D (currently only available in German)
VDA 675 205
Elastomer-Bauteile in Kraftfahrzeugen; Prüfverfahren zur Eigenschafts-
bestimmung; Spannungs-Dehnungs-Verhalten; Zugversuch (currently only
available in German)
VDA 675 217
Elastomer-Bauteile in Kraftfahrzeugen; Prüfverfahren zur Eigenschafts-
bestimmung, Kriechen und Relaxation, Zugverformungsrest (currently only
available in German)
VDA 675 235
Elastomer-Bauteile in Kraftfahrzeugen; Prüfverfahren zur Eigenschafts-
bestimmung; Reibung und Verschleiß; Abrieb (currently only available in
German)
VDA 675 241
Elastomer-Bauteile in Kraftfahrzeugen; Prüfverfahren zur Eigenschafts-
bestimmung; Korrosionswirkung auf Kupfer (currently only available in
German)
VDA 675 310
Elastomer-Bauteile in Kraftfahrzeugen; Prüfverfahren zur Beständigkeits-
prüfung, Wärmealterung (currently only available in German)
                                                
*)
In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.


Page 6
TL 523 24: 2004-04
Appendix A
informative
A.1 
Example TGA curve for EPDM
Sample Weight:
12.004 mg
1. 
Heat from 50.00 °C to 900 °C at 40.00 °C/min
2. 
Hold for 2.0 min at 900.00 °C
Figure A.1 
A.2 
Example DSC curve for EPDM
Sample Weight:
31.920 mg
1. 
Hold for 6.0 min at -100.00 °C
2. 
Heat from -100.00 °C to 30.00 °C at 20.00 °C/min
Figure A.2 
organic components:
Delta Y = 70.218%
inorganic components:
oxidizing components:
Delta Y = 24.024%
