# TL52284.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 55 27 0
October 2000
Foamed Leatherette, Leather-Like
Material Requirements
TL
522 84
Konzernnorm
5 Types: B, C, D, E, F
Descriptors: leatherette, gearshift lever, hand brake lever, polyester, PUR
D
Continued on pages 2 to 10
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
K-QS-31
H. Trowe
Tel:-2 51 02
Dr. Bembenek
Wiesner
Tel: +49-5361-929064
Sobanski
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung der Volkswagen AG, EZTN, nicht gestattet.
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung.
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of the Volkswagen Group, EZTN, Standard Department.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Form FE 41 - 10.99
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to the February 1996 issue:
─ Types without index and A deleted
─ Types E and F added
─ Standard restructured
Previous Issues
First issue: 1984-08
Last change: 1996-02
1 
Scope
This TL describes material requirements for foamed leatherette, that is used, for example, for lining
gearshift and parking brake levers (types B, C, E, F) or steering columns (type D).
1.1 
Types
─ TL 522 84, Type B
Leatherette on cotton fabric substrate, light type,
─ TL 522 84, Type C
Leatherette on cotton fabric substrate, heavy type,
─ TL 522 84, Type D
Leatherette, coagulated, rigid type,
─ TL 522 84, Type E
Leatherette, coagulated, soft anti-squeak type,
─ TL 522 84, Type F
Leatherette, coagulated, soft anti-squeak type, thick
2 
Designation
Foamed leatherette acc. to TL 522 84.
3 
Requirements
3.1 
Basic Specifications
Prior to application of this standard, the user shall ensure that the documentation conforms to the
most recent version. This can be found in NOLIS or from the creator.
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55.
Emission behavior acc. to VW 501 80.
Avoidance of hazardous substances acc. to VW 911 01.
Required minimum for complete testing: 10 finished parts and 2 m2 roll stock.
The specified numerical values apply to each individual measurement.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS (Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen!/Check standard for current issue prior to usage)


Page 2
TL 522 84: 2000-10
D
3.2 
Release for Standard Production
Prior to introducing the foamed leatherette into standard production, the valid „material require-
ments“ acc. to TL 522 84 and the „functional requirements“ acc. to TL 822 29 must be met. The
functional requirements take into consideration the influence of surface grain and finished cut in
particular on, for example, complaint-free shifting and the effect on operation contact with media
(such as greases and lubricants) on foamed leatherette.
3.3 
Appearance
Grain and color must be uniform, the surface many not have flaws and no writing effects.
3.4 
Processing Properties
The foamed leatherette must be sewable without problem.
3.5 
Functional Characteristics
The creasing (manual squeezing) may not negatively impact the desired “pliant leather effect” at a
temperature range of -40 to +90° C, even when in contact with grease.
„Smacking noises“ and damage to coating are not permissible.
For the „anti-squeak types“ (E and F), a smooth (e.g., ground) back and a paint system intended
for this requirement are required.
The hydrolysis resistant film and PUR top coat must tolerate without discoloring a commercial
cleaning agent.
3.6 
Physiological Compatibility
The leatherette shall be physiologically harmless, i.e., it shall not contain substances that induce
skin irritation.
Substances that are emitted at elevated temperatures shall be toxicologically safe, e.g., plasticiz-
ers and stabilizers.
3.7 
Conditioning
Prior to testing, the specimens must be conditioned for at least 24 h in the DIN 50 014 - 23/50-2
standard climate.
3.8 
Color and Grain
acc. to released sample.
3.9 
Material and Structure
3.9.1 
Types B and C
Polyester-PUR top coat on latex foamed plastic laminated onto cotton fabric (omitted systems);
Surface = polyester-PUR sealing paint acc. to release;
substrate = cotton fabric.


Page 3
TL 522 84: 2000-10
D
3.9.1.1 Material Code
>PUR + SBR + CO<.
3.9.2 
Type D
Fabric covered on both sides with polyester-PUR (coagulated system), back unground;
surface = polyester-PUR sealing paint acc. to release (soft paint system);
substrate = cotton/polyester fabric.
3.9.2.1 Material Code
>PUR + CO + PET<.
3.9.3 
Types E and F
Fabric covered on both sides with polyester-PUR (coagulated system), back ground;
surface = polyester-PUR sealing paint acc. to release (hard paint system);
substrate = cotton/polyester fabric;
thread count = warp > 18, weft > 10.
3.9.3.1 Material Code
>PUR + CO + PET<.
3.10 
Properties Relevant to Types
See table 1.
Table 1: 
Physical properties
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement of Type
B
C
D
E
F
1
Thickness acc. to
Section 4.1
mm
0.50 ±
0.05
0.80 ±
0.10
0.80 ±
0.15
0.80 ±
0.15
0.95 ± 0.15
2
Surface weight acc.
to Section 4.2
2.1
Total Structure
g/m²
250 ± 10
300 ± 20
300 ± 20
310 ± 40
310 ± 40
2.2
Substrate
g/m²
> 80
> 115
> 115
> 155
> 155
3
Tear Strength acc.
to Section 4.3
3.1
As-Received Con-
dition
3.1.1 Warp
N
> 160
> 230
> 350
> 300
> 300
3.1.2 Weft
N
> 90
> 120
> 400
> 250
> 250


Page 4
TL 522 84: 2000-10
D
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement of Type
B
C
D
E
F
3.2
After Moist Heat
Aging 200 h/+90° C/
100 % Relative
Humidity acc. to
Section 4.4
3.2.1 Warp
N
> 100
> 150
> 250
> 250
> 250
3.2.2 Weft
N
> 75
> 150
> 300
> 200
> 200
4
Elongation acc. to
PV 3909
4.1
Static Elongation
under 25 N Load
4.1.1 Warp
%
25 ± 5
36 ± 5
3 ± 2
< 6
< 6
4.1.2 Weft
%
140 ± 10
110 ± 10
4 ± 3
< 15
< 15
4.2
Permanent Elonga-
tion
4.2.1 Warp
%
< 6
< 5
< 2
< 2
< 2
4.2.2 Weft
%
< 23
< 9
< 3
< 6
< 6
5
Dimensional
Change
5.1
After Heat Aging
acc. to Section 4.5,
16 h/+90° C Me-
chanically Circu-
lated Air
5.1.1 Warp
%
< 2
< 2
± 0 to –0.5
± 0 to –3.0 ± 0 to –3.0
5.1.2 Weft
%
< 2
< 2
± 0 to +1.5 +1.0 to
–1.0
+1.0 to
–1.0
5.2
After Moist Heat
Aging
200 h/+90° C/
100% Rel. Humidity
5.2.1 Warp
%
< 5
< 5
± 0 to –3.0
± 0 to –3.0 ± 0 to –3.0
5.2.2 Weft
%
< 2
< 2
± 0 to –3.0
± 0 to –3.0 ± 0 to –3.0
3.11 
Elevated-Temperature Behavior after 16 h/+90° C Mechanically Circulated Air (acc.
to Section 4.5)
3.11.1 Visual Appearance
No sticky surfaces; no delamination; no detectable cracking.


Page 5
TL 522 84: 2000-10
D
3.11.2 Bend Test (acc. to Section 4.6)
No detectable cracking when bent manually around a 180° bend angle.
3.12 
Elevated-Temperature Behavior after 480 h/+130° C Mechanically Circulated Air
(acc. to Section 4.5)
3.12.1 Visual Appearance
No sticky surfaces; no delamination; no detectable cracking. Surface changes, such as change in
gloss and hardening are permissible in accordance with the released sample.
3.12.2 Bend Test (acc. to Section 4.6)
No detectable cracking when bent manually around a 180° bend angle.
3.13 
Behavior after Moist Heat Aging 200 h/+90° C/ 100 % Relative Humidity
3.13.1 Visual Appearance
No sticky surfaces; no delamination; no detectable cracking.
3.13.2 Bend Test (acc. to Section 4.6)
No detectable cracking when bent manually around a 180° bend angle.
3.14 
Low-Temperature Behavior after 24 h at -40° C
3.14.1 Ball Drop Test (acc. to PV 3905 and Section 4.7)
No breaking or tearing of specimens.
3.14.2 Fold-Bend Test (acc. to Section 4.8)
No cracking when bending edge.
3.15 
Abrasion Behavior (acc. to PV 3906 and Section 4.9)
3.15.1 After 100 Crockmeter Strokes against Moist Rubbing Cloth
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to EN 20 105-A03; intermediate stage 4.5 is permissible.
3.15.2 After 100 Crockmeter Strokes against Dry Rubbing Cloth
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to EN 20 105-A03; intermediate stage 4.5 is permissible.


Page 6
TL 522 84: 2000-10
D
3.16 
Colorfastness
3.16.1 Against Light acc. to  PV 1303 (3 periods of exposure)
3.16.1.1 Visual Appearance
Gray-scale level ≥ 4 acc. to EN 20 105-A02, change in gloss is permissible acc. to released sam-
ple.
3.16.1.2 Bend Test (acc. to Section 4.6)
No detectable cracking when bent manually around a 180° bend angle.
3.16.2 Against Water (filter paper test acc. to Section 4.10)
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to EN 20 105-A03; intermediate stage 4.5 is permissible.
3.16.3 Against Abrasion (rotary abrasion test acc. to Section 4.11)
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to EN 20 105-A03; intermediate stage 4.5 is permissible.
3.17 
Resistance to Synthetic Sweat (acc. to Sections 4.9 and 4.12)
3.17.1 Evaluation of Leatherette Surface
Increased gloss acc. to released sample.
3.17.2 Evaluation of Rubbing Cloth
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to EN 20 105-A03; intermediate stage 4.5 is permissible.
3.18 
Resistance to Cleaning Agents (acc. to Sections 4.9 and 4.13)
3.18.1 Drop Test (acc. to Section 4.14)
No change in color or grain structure; changes in degree of glossiness are permissible acc. to re-
leased sample.
3.18.2 Abrasion Behavior after 10 Crockmeter Strokes with Rubbing Cloth Wet with Deter-
gent (acc. to Section 4.9)
3.18.2.1 Surface Evaluation (acc. to Section 4.15)
Increased gloss acc. to released sample is permissible.
3.18.2.2 Evaluation of Rubbing Cloth
Gray-scale level > 4 according to EN 20 105-A03.


Page 7
TL 522 84: 2000-10
D
3.19 
Permanent Bend Behavior (acc. to Section 4.16)
3.19.1 After 100,000 bends at room temperature
No visibly perceptible change compared to as-received condition.
3.19.2 After 30,000 bends at -10° C
No visibly perceptible change compared to as-received condition.
3.20 
Burning Behavior per US Regulation 571 302
Acc. to TL 1010
(if specified in drawing and/or release)
3.21 
Grease Resistance (acc. to Section 4.17)
Only for finished parts: no brittling and contact discoloration of the PUR layer after contact with the
molybdenum disulfide paste (acc. to release).
4 
Notes on Testing
4.1 
Thickness
The thickness gauging is conducted acc. to EN ISO 2286-3.
4.2 
Weight per Unit Area
The weight per unit area is determined acc. to EN ISO 2286-2.
Total structure: Acc. to method A, at least 3 round specimens (100 cm² ) are taken from the roll
width and weighed. The weight per unit area determined is based on 1 m².
Individual layers: The specimens from the total structure determination are used. To determine the
substrate weight, the substrate material is separated using acetone from the polyurethane acc. to
method B. After drying (2 h/+70° C/mechanically circulated air) and then aging for at least 30 min.
at (23 ± 2)° C, the weight per unit area is determined.
4.3 
Tear Strength
Determination of tear strength in the standard test specimen acc. to Figure 1 at a traverse speed of
100 mm/min and a free clamping length (gage length) of 100 mm. At least 3 specimens are taken
from the roll width. Specimens which tear at the clamps shall only be evaluated if the results are
above the lowest standard individual value. Stored specimens are tested only after a subsequent
aging for at least 30 min (23 ± 2)° C.
4.4 
Tear Strength after Moist Heat Aging
DIN A4 size specimens are taken from the roll stock in lengthwise and cross-wise directions and
recorded as tear specimens.
Then both weft sides of the specimens are stamped by a double punch with four holes spaced ap-
prox. 25 mm from the edge. These holes are used for insertion of the attached hooks to mount the
round rods (approx. 80 g, ∅ approx. 6 mm). This „weighting“ prevents the edges from rolling in.


Page 8
TL 522 84: 2000-10
D
The specimens are suspended in the mechanical circulation oven or climate cupboard with at least
50 mm spacing. After a subsequent specimen aging for 30 min at (23 ± 2)° C, the specimens are
taken from the sections acc. to Figure 2.
Figure 1: Standard test specimen for determining the tear strength
Figure 2: Moist heat aging
4.5 
Elevated-Temperature Behavior
The test is conducted based on DIN 53 377 using DIN A 4 size specimens, which are suspended
and aged in a mechanical circulation oven or climate cupboard. The specimens are „weighted“ acc.
to Section 4.4. Stored specimens are tested only after a subsequent aging for at least 30 min
at (23 ± 2)° C.
4.6 
Bend Test
Once the dimensional change is determined, the specimens are then manually bent backwards
along the center by 180°. The bent edge is fixed with wire stitches.


Page 9
TL 522 84: 2000-10
D
4.7 
Ball Drop Test
The specimens are supported by a strong wood panel, approx. 2.3 mm thick.
Source of supply: Funder Industriegesellschaft, mbH, A-9300 St. Veit/ Glan.
Product designation: Funder Biofaserplatte [bio-fiber board] VW TP 1, thickness (2.3 ± 0.15) mm,
gross density 0.95 to 1.00 g/cm³.
4.8 
Fold-Bend Test
Testing acc. to EN 1876-1.
4.9 
Abrasion
The Crockmeter device’s stamp is padded by a approx. 2 mm thick polyester-PUR foamed plastic
(weight per unit volume 40 ± 5 kg/m³). Rubbing cloth can be considered "moist" if it has been im-
mersed for at least 1 min. in the respective medium and then has been shortly placed between
filter paper.
4.10 
Filter Paper Test
A filter paper (Schleicher & Schüll "Blauband 5893") previously immersed in deionized water shall
be placed on a specimen section of approx. (50 x 50) mm; the entire unit shall then be loaded for
1 h with 5 kg between two glass plates.
4.11 
Rotation Abrasion Test
Round specimens (100 cm²) shall be abraded against colorless nettle cloth with the Schopper ma-
chine.
─ Specimen curvature: 5 mm
─ Abrasion surface: 50 cm²
─ Pressure force: 9.81 N
─ 1,000 revolutions
─ Size of nettle cloth (20 x 9.5) cm
The nettle cloth specimen shall be clamped into the holding fixture on the test machine together
with a similar size wool felt pad acc. to TL 380. Nettle cloth acc. to ECE-cotton fabric
EN ISO 105-X12.
4.12 
Resistance to Synthetic Sweat
At least 2 specimen strips measuring (170 x 50) mm are aged for 30 min in solution A and then for
30 min in solution B each at +35° C bath temperature. Subsequently, the top of the material is
abraded against ECE cotton fabric on the Crockmeter device; prior to abrasion, the residual mois-
ture is removed by placing the specimen between layers of filter paper.
─ Solution A: 0.75 volume percent acetic acid (add 1 l distilled water to 7.5 ml 100 % acetic acid).
─ Solution B: Aqueous ammonia solution, i.e.,  0.036 % by weight with 0.5 percent by weight NaCl
(fill 1g NH3 solution [25 %] to distilled water up to 690 g and add 3.47 g NaCl).
4.13 
Cleaning Agent
The paint shall be resistant to the following cleaning agents:
─ 0.5 vol. % aqueous solution of surface-active agent, e.g., washing-up liquid
─ ammoniacal alcoholic cleaning liquid (e.g. window cleaner), undiluted
─ petroleum ether (special boiling point spirit II acc. to DIN 51 631, 80/100° C)
─ isopropanol/n-heptane (1:1)


Page 10
TL 522 84: 2000-10
D
4.14 
Drop Test
0.1 ml drops are applied to the surface with a pipette. After allowing a period of 10 min for the me-
dium to work in, it is dried for 30 min at +60° C in mechanically circulated air. The surface shall be
evaluated 24 h after the treatment.
4.15 
Surface Testing after Abrasion Test
Changes in degree of glossiness are to be stated only if they cannot be removed with a wet cloth.
4.16 
Permanent Bend Behavior
Testing acc. to DIN 53 351; the formation of cracks is evaluated with a magnifying glass with 6
times enlargement.
4.17 
Resistance to Grease
Approx. 30 g molybdenum disulfide paste (grease acc. to release) are applied to the back; subse-
quently, the cuffs are stood up normally for temperature aging (24 h/-40° C and then 48 h/+90° C).
Immediately after the respective test times, there may be no cracking on the surface for the simu-
lated shifting actions. Material hardening acc. to released sample is permissible.
5 
Referenced Standards
PV 3905
Organic Materials; Ball Drop Test
PV 3906
Non-metallic Planar Fabrics, Abrasion Behavior Testing
PV 3909
Non-Metallic Planar Fabrics, Measurement of the Static and Permanent
Elongation
TL 380
Wool Felt for Testing Purposes; Material Requirements
TL 1010
Materials for Vehicle Interiors, Burning Behavior; Material Requirements
TL 822 29
Shifting Gears
VW 011 55
Vehicle Supply Parts - General, Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 501 80
Vehicle Interior Components, Emissions
VW 911 01
Environmental Standard for Vehicles, Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating
Fluids, Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
DIN 50 014
Climates and Their Technical Application; Standard Climates
DIN 51 631
Special Boiling Point Spirits; Requirements
DIN 53 351
Testing Leather, Leatherette and Similar Sheet Materials; Permanent
Bending Behavior (Flexometer Method)
DIN 53 377
Testing Plastic Films; Determining Dimensional Change
DIN EN 1876-1
Rubber- or Plastic-Coated Textiles — Tests at Low Temperatures - Part 1:
Bend Test
DIN EN 20 105-A02
Textiles; Tests for Color Fastness, Part A02: Gray Scale for Assessing
Change in Color
DIN EN 20 105-A03
Textiles; Tests for Color Fastness, Part A03: Gray Scale for Assessing
Staining
DIN EN ISO 105-X12
Textiles; Tests for Color Fastness, Color Fastness Against Rubbing
DIN EN ISO 2286-2
Rubber- or Plastic-Coated Textiles — Determining Roll Characteristics -
Part 2: Determining the Total Weight based on Surface Area; Weight
based on Surface Area of Coating and Weight based on Surface Area of
Substrate
DIN EN ISO 2286-3
Rubber- or Plastic-Coated Textiles — Determining Roll Characteristics -
Part 3: Determining the Thickness
US Regulation 571 302 German Regulation No. 302, Combustibility of Materials for Vehicle Interi-
ors
