# TL52061(2005-02-01,EN).pdf

Klass.-Nr. 55 27 0 
February 2005 
Foamed Leatherette 
Material Requirements 
TL 
520 61 
Konzernnorm 
6 types: without index (= O), A, B, C, D, E 
 
Descriptors: 
leatherette, upholstery cover, foamed leatherette, seat 
D
 
Page 1 of 10 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-31 
Frau Pieper  Tel: -24202 
Dr. Schilling 
Frau Krenz Tel: +49-5361-9-48869 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.05 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 520 61, 2003-10: 
─ 
Test Specifications PV 1300, PV 3406 and PV 3903 removed 
─ 
Type A adapted to the standard production status 
─ 
Scope restricted for type without index, B, C, D and E 
Previous issues 
1978-07; 1978-10; 1981-03; 1982-09; 1983-04; 1987-03; 1988-07; 1989-07; 1995-12; 2003-10 
1 
Scope 
This TL standard specifies the material requirements for foamed leatherette, e.g. upholstery 
material. Do not use type without index, B, C, D or E for new designs! 
2 
Description 
Foamed leatherette according to TL 520 61 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
Types 
─ 
TL 520 61 
Foamed leatherette, HF-weldable, for e.g. upholstery material 
for seats and sides with abrasion-resistant finish. Not for new 
design! 
─ 
TL 520 61-A 
Foamed leatherette, HF-weldable, for e.g. seat base leather 
and upholstery material for back of the backrest area without 
abrasion-resistant finish. 
─ 
TL 520 61-B 
Foamed leatherette, HF-weldable, for e.g. upholstery material 
with low static elongation. Abrasion-resistant finish as required. 
Not for new design! 
─ 
TL 520 61-C 
Foamed leatherette, sewn, for e.g. sandwich lamination for seat 
and backrest center parts without abrasion-resistant finish. Not 
for new design! 
─ 
TL 520 61-D 
Foamed leatherette, HF-weldable, for e.g. covering of the 
front seat for the back of the backrest area without abrasion-
resistant finish. Not for new design! 
─ 
TL 520 61-E 
Foamed leatherette, HF-weldable, for e.g. tarpaulin for load 
compartment cover without abrasion-resistant finish. Not for 
new design! 
 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 520 61: 2005-02 
D 
3.2 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 011 55. 
Emission behavior according to VW 501 80. 
Colorimetric evaluation according to VW 501 90. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
For complete testing, at least 2 m2 roll stock is required. 
3.3 
Appearance and processing behavior 
Grain and color pattern must be uniform. The foamed leatherette must be free of foreign matter or 
substances that could negatively impact the high-frequency weldability and the bond hardenability. 
The open-cell PUR foam must flame-laminate to the foamed leatherette properly. No color change 
shall occur on the leatherette when it is tensioned; in addition, the material shall not have any 
distortion after unrolling. It must be possible to process it properly, i.e., according to the assembly 
working conditions. In addition, the structures of the lower layers must not be visible on the surface 
(writing effects). 
The laminating devices for the leatherette knit fabric and the PA6 substrate shall not run in opposite 
directions. 
3.4 
Conditioning 
Prior to testing, the specimens must be conditioned for at least 24 h in the DIN 50014 – 23/50-2 
standard climate. 
3.5 
Evaluation of the measuring results 
The required numerical values apply to each individual measurement. 
4 
Material 
For requirements, see Table 1. 
 


Page 3 
TL 520 61: 2005-02 
D 
Table 1 
 
 
 
Type 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
without index 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
1  
Material and structure 
 
Foamed PVC with compact PVC top coat, flat and artificial grain 
laminated on textured polyester knit fabric 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and back open-
cell PUR foam 
according to 
released sample 
with PA6 base 
knit fabric acc. 
to TL 487-A 
Foamed PVC 
with compact, 
grained PVC 
top coat 
laminated 
on textured 
polyester knit 
Textured 
polyester knit 
fabric embedded 
in foamed PVC 
with face fabric, 
compact, flat-
grained PVC 
top coat 
2  
Color 
 
Acc. to requirement 
3  
Thickness 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1  
PVC top coat 
see Section 5.1 
mm 
0.20 ± 0.05 
0.20 ± 0.5 
0.20 ± 0.05 
3.2  
Foamed plastic after flame lamination 
(final thickness) 
mm 
– 
14 + 1 
– 
4  
Gross density of the foam material acc. to 
DIN EN ISO 845 before flame lamination 
kg/m3 
– 
40 + 5 
– 
5  
Weight per unit area 
acc. to Section 5.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.1  
Total structure 
g/m2 
740 ± 40 
1,300 
to 
1,400 
740 ± 40 
5.2  
Textured PES knit fabric 
g/m2 
≥ 80 
≥ 70 
5.3  
PA6 base knit fabric 
g/m2 
– 
≥ 75 
– 


Page 4 
TL 520 61: 2005-02 
D 
 
 
 
Type 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
without index 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
6  
Tear strength per 5 cm specimen width 
(total structure) 
see Section 5.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.1  
As-received condition 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.1.1 Length 
N 
≥ 300 
≥ 500 
≥ 300 
≥ 350 
6.1.2 Width 
N 
≥ 300 
≥ 250 
≥ 300 
≥ 600 
In weft direction, 
the PA base knit 
fabric may tear 
before the 
leatherette 
≥ 250 
≥ 250 
6.2  
High-temperature test 
7 d at +120 °C in mechanically circulated air 
see Section 5.7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2.1 Length 
N 
± 15% as compared to x  as-received condition 
≥ 400 
± 15% as compared to x  
as-received condition 
6.2.2 Width 
N 
± 15% as compared to x  as-received condition 
≥ 400 
No embrittlement 
or crumbling of 
the foam from 
manually applied 
bending stress. 
In weft direction, 
the PA base knit 
fabric may tear 
before the 
leatherette. 
± 15% as compared to x  
as-received condition 


Page 5 
TL 520 61: 2005-02 
D 
 
 
 
Type 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
without index 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
7  
Elongation acc. to PV 3909 
(total structure) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.1  
Static elongation 
50 N load 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.1.1 Length 
% 
20 ± 6 
20 ± 5 
8 ± 2 
25 ± 5 
8 ± 3 
7.1.2 Width 
% 
34 ± 10 
35 – 10 
8 ± 2 
55 ± 10 
27 ± 5 
7.2  
Permanent elongation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.2.1 Length 
% 
≤ 3 
≤ 2 
≤ 3 
7.2.2 Width 
% 
≤ 6 
≤ 2 
≤ 6 
7.3  
Tear propagation strength acc. to DIN 53356 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3.1 Length 
N 
≥ 35 
- 
≥ 30 
≥ 20 
7.3.2 Width 
N 
≥ 24 
- 
≥ 24 
≥ 16 
8  
Adhesion acc. to DIN 53357  
(per 5 cm specimen width) 
(entire scatter range) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.1  
PVC coating/textured PES knit fabric 
Length and width 
see Section 5.4 
N 
≥ 30 
– 
8.2  
Foamed leatherette/foamed plastic 
Length and width 
see Section 5.4 
N 
– 
≥ 15 
– 
8.3  
Foamed leatherette/base knit fabric 
Length and width 
see Section 5.4 
N 
– 
≥ 20 
– 
9  
Stitch tear resistance acc. to DIN 53331, 
based on material thickness 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.1  
Length 
N 
≥ 35 
– 
≥ 40 
9.2  
Width 
N 
≥ 30 
– 
≥ 45 


Page 6 
TL 520 61: 2005-02 
D 
 
 
 
Type 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
without index 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
10  
Abrasion characteristics according 
to PV 3912; 
first detectable surface damage 
at (23 ± 2) °C  
Number of strokes 
 
 
 
 
 
≥ 1,500 
 
 
 
 
– 
 
 
 
 
≥ 1,500 
(depending on 
requirements) 
 
 
 
– 
11  
Air permeability acc. to DIN 53887 for 
50 cm2 test area and 2 mbar vacuum 
l/min/ 
100 cm2 
≥ 30 
– 
≥ 30 (depending 
on requirements) 
≥ 30 
– 
12  
Change in thickness after loading and unloading (return capability) 
Loss of thickness after 5 h under a 10 kg load at 350 N/100 cm2 
preload, followed by 2 h of complete unloading 
 
 
 
 
12.1  Load application test 
(23 ±) °C 
% 
– 
≤ 3 
– 
12.2  (50 ± 3) °C 
Unload at (23 ± 2) °C 
% 
– 
≤ 6 
– 
13  
Compression pressure acc. to DIN EN ISO 3386-1 
(at 50% compression v = 30 mm) 
 
 
 
 
 
13.1  As-received condition 
kPa 
– 
 
≤ 10 
– 
13.2  After 168 h at +120 °C in mechanically 
circulated air 
kPa 
– 
≤ 10 
– 
14  
Low-temperature behavior 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14.1  Ball drop test according to PV 3905 
-30 °C, ball drop height 230 mm 
 
No tearing or breaking of specimens 
 
optionally 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14.2  Fold-bend test acc. to DIN 53361 
8 h at -40 °C 
(specimens conditioned in device) 
 
No cracking along bending edge 
 
– 
No cracking along bending edge 
15  
Resistance to water 
22 h at (23 ± 2) °C 
 
Temporary fading according to gray scale level ≥ 4 
according to DIN 20105-A02 is permissible; no grain 
image change. 
– 
Temporary fading according to 
gray scale level ≥ 4 according 
to DIN 20105-A02 is permissible; 
no grain image change. 


Page 7 
TL 520 61: 2005-02 
D 
 
 
 
Type 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
without index 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
16  
Colorfastness 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16.1  To light acc. to PV 1303 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16.1.1 3 exposure periods 
 
Gray-scale level ≥ 4 acc. to DIN EN 20105-A02 
16.1.2 5 exposure periods 
 
– 
Gray-scale level 
≥ 4 acc. to DIN 
EN 20105-A02 
16.2  To water (filter paper test) 
see Section 5.5 
 
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to DIN EN 20105-A03; intermediate level 4.5 permissible 
16.3  To abrasion (Schopper test) 
face fabric acc. to Section 5.6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16.3.1 After 1,000 test cycles at a contact 
pressure of 10 N 
 
– 
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to 
DIN EN 20105-A03; intermediate 
level 4.5 permissible 
– 
Gray-scale level 
5 acc. to DIN 
EN 20105-A03; 
intermediate level 
4.5 permissible 
– 
16.3.2 After 2,000 test cycles at a contact 
pressure of 20 N 
 
Gray-scale level 
5 acc. to DIN 
EN 20105-A03; 
intermediate level 
4.5 permissible 
– 
Gray-scale level 5 acc. to 
DIN EN 20105-A03; intermediate 
level 4.5 permissible 
– 
16.4  High-temperature test 
see Section 5.7 
7 d at +120 °C in mechanically circulated air;  
exception color white 
24 h at +120 °C in mechanically circulated 
air 
 
The leatherette must not become hard and brittle and must not roll up; 
there must not be any deterioration when compared to the release status 
Gray-scale level 3 D acc. to DIN EN 20105-A02, however no color shift 
17  
Burning behavior 
acc. to US Regulation 571.302 
 
Acc. to TL 1010 (if specified in drawing and/or release) 
18  
Permanent bending behavior 
120 h at +100 °C in mechanically 
circulated air 
[approx. (150 x 150) mm specimen 
sections with the upper side of the material 
folded in accordion fashion] 
 
– 
No visibly per-
ceptible impair-
ment of the PVC 
coating, such as 
discoloration and/ 
or tackiness after 
opening the fold  
 


Page 8 
TL 520 61: 2005-02 
D 
5 
Notes on testing 
5.1 
PVC top coat 
Measurement of the thickness with reflected light microscope at 30 x or 40 x magnification. 
5.2 
Weight per unit area 
At least three 100-cm2 specimens are taken from different points along the entire width of the roll, 
weighed and the weight obtained converted to 1 m2. 
The same specimens that were used to determine the weight of the total structure are now used to 
determine the individual structure weights. 
After separating the PVC covering from the PES knit fabric substrate or in the case of type C the 
PA base knit fabric from the PUR foam, the knits must be cleaned of any adhering residue using 
tetrahydrofurane. 
The knits are dried for 2 h in mechanically circulated air at +70 °C. After cooling to (23 ± 2) °C, th e 
weights shall be determined. 
5.3 
Tear strength 
Determination of the tear strength with standard test specimen (traverse speed: 100 mm/min; 
distance between clamps of the test device: 100 mm) on a minimum of three specimens taken 
parallel to the courses. 
The specimens shall be taken over the total width of the roll. To avoid cracks in the specimens near 
the clamps of the tensile test machine, “shoulder” strips are produced using a template equivalent 
to the shape of the standard test specimen (see Figure 1). 
 
Figure 1 


Page 9 
TL 520 61: 2005-02 
D 
5.4 
Adhesion 
When evaluating, not only the peak values but also the entire separating force scatter range 
is recorded. 
5.5 
Colorfastness to water 
A (50 x 50)-mm specimen shall be wetted with approx. 2 cm3 deionized water, placed between filter 
paper (Schleicher & Schüll, Blauband 5893) and glass plates and loaded with 50 N for one hour. 
The filter paper shall be evaluated for bleeding using the gray-scale level according to 
DIN EN 20105-A03. 
5.6 
Colorfastness to abrasion 
Abrasion test on 100 cm2 round specimen of leatherette against ECE-cotton fabric according to 
DIN EN ISO 105-X12 
Specimen curvature 
5 mm 
Abrasion surface 
50 cm2 
Specimen size of nettle cloth approx. 
(280 x 95) mm 
The ECE cotton fabric is clamped into the holding fixture on the test machine together with a similar 
size wool felt pad according to TL 380. 
5.7 
High-temperature test 
DIN A41-sized specimens shall be taken parallel to the threads in lengthwise and crosswise 
directions. After that, both broad sides of the specimens are stamped by a double punch with four 
holes spaced approximately 25 mm from the edge. These holes are used to hold the hooks welded 
to the round bars (see Figure 2). 
With the exception of material type C, a 6-mm Ø round bar with a weight of approximately 80 g is 
attached to the ”bottom side” of each test specimen. This is done to make heavier the sections that 
are hanging vertically. 
Then the specimens are aged at +120 °C with mechani cally circulated air at a distance of 50 mm to 
each other. At the end of the high-temperature test and subsequent conditioning in standard 
climate according to DIN 50014–23/50-2, the tearing and bending specimens are removed from the 
sections according to Figure 2 (sample shape drawn before the high-temperature test). 
 
Figure 2 
                                                
1 DIN A4 = German standard paper size 


Page 10 
TL 520 61: 2005-02 
D 
6 
Referenced standards2 
TL 380 
Wool Felt for Testing Purposes; Material Requirements 
TL 487 
PA-Gewirke; Werkstoffanforderungen (PA-Knit; Material Requirements – 
currently only available in German) 
TL 1010 
Materials for Vehicle Interiors; Flammability, Material Requirements 
PV 1303 
Non-Metallic Materials; Exposure Test of Passenger Compartment 
Components 
PV 3905 
Organic Materials; Ball Drop Test 
PV 3909 
Non-Metallic Planar Fabrics; Measurement of Static and Permanent 
Elongation 
PV 3912 
Nichtmetallische 
Flächengebilde; 
Verschleißprüfung 
(Non-Metallic 
Planar Fabrics; Wear Test – currently only available in German) 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 501 80 
Components in Passenger Compartment; Emission Behavior 
VW 501 90 
Components of the Vehicle Interior Trim; Colorimetric Evaluation 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN 50014 
Climates and Their Technical Application; Standard Atmospheres 
DIN 53331 
Testing of Leather, Determination of the Stitch Tear Resistance 
DIN 53356 
Testing of Artificial Leather and Similar Sheet Materials; Tear 
Growth Test 
DIN 53357 
Testing of Plastics Sheets; Adhesion Test 
DIN EN 1876-1 
Rubber or Plastics Coated Fabrics – Low Temperatures Tests – Part 1: 
Bending Test 
DIN EN 20105-A02 
Textiles – Tests for Colour Fastness – Part A02: Grey Scale for 
Assessing Change in Colour 
DIN EN 20105-A03 
Textiles; Tests for Colour Fastness – Part A03: Grey Scale for Assessing 
Staining 
DIN EN ISO 105-X12 
Textiles; Tests for Colour Fastness – Part X12: Colour Fastness 
to Rubbing 
DIN EN ISO 845 
Cellular Plastics and Rubbers – Determination of Apparent (Bulk) 
Density  
DIN EN ISO 3386-1 
Polymeric Materials, Cellular Flexible – Determination of Stress-Strain 
Characteristic in Compression – Part 1: Low-Density Materials. 
DIN EN ISO 9237 
Textiles – Determination of Permeability of Fabrics to Air 
                                                
2 In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
