# TL52178E.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 57 22 5 
November 2002 
Special Transmission Oil API GL 4 SAE 75W 
Lubricant Requirements 
TL 
521 78 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
transmission oil, transmission fluid, lubricant, manual transmission, axle drive, 
API GL 4 SAE 75W 
 
Page 1 of 13 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733) 
 
K-QS-33 
Engelen 
Tel:-23013 
Fr. Hager-Süß, Tel.: +49-5361-9-49035 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 12.00 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification TL 521 78, 
2000-06: 
 
Standard part number N 052 178 01 added 
 
Test scope extended by "Compatibility with thrust washer composite" 
Previous issues 
2000-06 
1 
Scope 
The present standard contains the lubricant requirements for transmission fluids, primarily for 
manual transmissions and axle drives with spur gear teeth, for life filling. 
2 
Designation 
Special transmission oil API GL 4 SAE 75W according to TL 521 78 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Transmission oils according to this TL standard have optimal performance in manual transmissions 
and axle drives with spur gear teeth in summer and winter operation. 
This transmission oil is a single-grade transmission oil – technology based on mineral oils – with 
additives to improve the coefficient of friction, wear protection, oxidation protection, foam protection 
and corrosion protection. 
The documentation of the performance according to API GL 4 for the additive package must be 
submitted. 
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
20 l must be delivered to the VW Central Laboratories for evaluation. 
In addition, test certificates must be submitted for the specified requirements. 
Other tests, such as function tests and road trials are required for an evaluation. 200 l are required 
for this. 
The evaluation statement automatically expires 3 years after granting release or when the 
transmission oil formulation is changed. With regular deliveries and quality control verifications 
according to the test plan in Section 4.5, the release remains. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 521 78: 2002-11 
 
VW Central Laboratories must be informed of changes to the formulation in writing; they require a 
new sampling check and written release. 
If the release is revoked, the supplier must forward this information to the concerned parts 
suppliers of the VW Group. 
3.2 
Miscibility 
Transmission oils according to this specification must be miscible with one another in any ratio 
without limitation. The mixtures must also correspond to all requirements of this specification. 
The verification must be provided for a mixing ratio of 50 : 50. 
3.3 
Service temperature range (-40 to +160)°C 
See Table 1. 
Table 1 
1 % of the service life 
+140 °C to +160 °C 
9 % of the service life 
+110 °C to +140 °C 
90 % of the service life 
≤ +110 °C 
3.4 
Shelf life 
Shelf life in unopened original packaging is > 24 months at -20 °C to + 50 °C. The batch number 
must be given on the label. 
3.5 
Standard part number 
 
N 052 178 00 
 
N 052 178 01 
(with friction modifier) 
3.6 
Technical engineering approval (BMG) 
The material according to this Technical Supply Specification is subject to technical engineering 
approval (BMG). 
3.6.1 
Responsible departments 
Volkswagen AG: 
EAGH 
 
K-QS-33 


Page 3 
TL 521 78: 2002-11 
 
4 
Release procedure 
4.1 
Additive batch testing 
If the additive supplier mixes a certain quantity of the finished additive package, this total quantity is 
designated as an additive batch and given an additive batch number. 
Each additive batch must be tested prior to use for mixing the end product. 
The transmission oil supplier provides VW with 5 liters of the mixed end product. 
The additive batch release occurs after the release cycle (Appendix A.1) by the quality assurance 
department of the transmission oil supplier. 
4.2 
First-sample test 
For mixing a first sample, only a checked and released additive batch may be used (Section 4.1). 
The transmission oil supplier provides the quality assurance department of the ordering plant with 5 
liters of the end product mixed according to standard-production conditions with a VDA1 first 
sample test report. 
This report must contain the results according to Sections 5 to 7. 
The first-sample release is issued by the quality assurance department of the ordering plant. 
4.3 
Manufacturing-batch testing 
If the oil supplier mixes a certain quantity of the finished product, this total quantity is designated as 
a manufacturing batch and given a manufacturing report number. 
For mixing a manufacturing batch, only a checked and released additive batch may be used 
(Section 4.1). 
The transmission oil supplier provides the quality assurance department of the ordering plant with 5 
liters of the mixed end product including the test reports according to Section 4.5. 
The manufacturing batch release occurs after the release cycle (Appendix A.1) by the quality 
assurance department of the transmission oil supplier. 
If different manufacturing batches (max. 2) are stored in one tank and the shipment is taken from 
this tank, both manufacturing batch numbers (Section 4.5) are to be given on the delivery slip. 
4.4 
Delivery batch 
If the transmission oil supplier removes one or more separate partial quantities from the total 
quantity of a manufacturing batch at different times and delivers them to the ordering party or 
stores them, each partial quantity is designated as its own fill batch and given a fill report number in 
addition to the manufacturing report number. 
When delivering in drums, only clean drums must be used. For bulk deliveries, the tank car shall be 
cleaned before filling. 
The quality assurance department of the ordering plant receives a plant testing certificate 
(DIN EN 10 204) with each shipment. The plant testing certificate includes the manufacturing and 
fill report numbers as well as the test values according to Section 4.5. 
                                                
1 German Association of the Automotive Industry 


Page 4 
TL 521 78: 2002-11 
 
4.5 
Test plan 
See Table 2. 
Table 2 
Testing according to 
Additive batches 
Manufacturing 
batches 
Delivery batch 
Laboratory 
examinations 
Table 3, No. 1, No. 2 
and No. 5 
Table 3, No. 1, No. 2 
and No. 5 to No. 10 
Table 3, No. 1, No. 2 
and No. 5 to No. 10 
Foaming behavior 
 
Table 4, No. 7*) 
 
Air-in-oil dispersion 
 
Table 4, No. 8*) 
 
Steady-state 
temperature 
 
Table 5, No. 5.1*) 
 
Compatibility with 
thrust washer 
composite 
 
Table 5, No. 3*) 
 
*) These tests must be performed once a year. 
5 
Requirements for composition, density and viscosity 
See Table 3. 
Table 3 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
Requirement 
1 
Color/appearance 
acc. to ASTM D 6045 
 
< 2.0 
2 
IR spectrum 
acc. to DIN 51 451 
 
according to sample 
3 
Additive type 
 
according to sample 
see Section 8.1 
3.1 
Additive content 
% 
4.75 ± 0.10    (N 052 178 00) 
6.00 ± 0.10    (N 052 178 01) 
4 
Base oils 
4.1 
Type and content 
(CA, CP,CN) 
% 
to be specified 
4.2 
Compliance with VW environmental 
standard VW 911 01 
 
to be specified 
4.3 
PAH content acc. to VW 505 50 
Testing acc. to PV 1448 
 
to be specified 
4.4 
Viscosity index of the base oil 
acc. to DIN ISO 2909 
 
≥ 105 
5 
Elements 
(Mg, Ca, Ba, Zn, B, N, P, S, Cl) 
 
to be specified 
5.1 
Zinc (Zn) 
acc. to DIN 51 391-1 
or DIN 51 391-2 
% 
0.014 ± 0.003 
5.2 
Nitrogen (N) 
acc. to ASTM D 3228 
% 
0.050 ± 0.010    (N 052 178 00) 
0.058 ± 0.010    (N 052 178 01) 


Page 5 
TL 521 78: 2002-11 
 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
Requirement 
5.3 
Phosphorus (P) 
acc. to DIN 51 363-2 
% 
0.065 ± 0.010 
5.4 
Sulfur (S) 
acc. to DIN EN ISO 14596 
% 
0.30 ± 0.10 
6 
Water content  
acc. to DIN 51 777-1 
mg/kg 
≤ 500 
7 
Density 
acc. to DIN 51 757 
at +15 °C 
kg/m³ 
according to sample 
8 
Pour point 
acc. to DIN ISO 3016 
°C 
max. -40 
9 
Dynamic viscosity 
 
 
9.1 
at -40 °C 
acc. to DIN 51 398 
mPas 
≤ 150,000 
9.2 
at -15 °C 
acc. to DIN 51 377 
mPas 
≤ 2,000 
10 
Kinematic viscosity 
acc. to DIN 51 562-1 
10.1 
at +40 °C 
mm²/s 
according to sample 
10.2 
at +100 °C 
mm²/s 
≥ 6.0 
6 
Property requirements 
See Table 4. 
Table 4 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
Requirement 
1 
Evaporation loss 
acc. to DIN 51 581 
at +200 °C 
% 
≤ 8 
2 
Flash point 
acc. to DIN ISO 2592 
°C 
to be specified 
Oil purity 
Microscopic particle count 
acc. to ISO 4407 
3 
Purity class 
acc. to ISO 4406 
 
20 / 16 
4 
Corrosivity 
acc. to PV 1425 
Steel 
4.1 
Grade 
 
max. 1 
Copper 
Grade 
 
max. 1 
4.2 
Weight loss 
% 
≤ 2.0 
4.3 
Sludge formation of the oil-water 
mixture 
 
not permissible 
5 
Anti-corrosion behavior 
acc. to PV 1401 
(2 test cycles) 
Corr. 
grade 
1 
(evaluation begins 5 mm from the 
upper edge) 


Page 6 
TL 521 78: 2002-11 
 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
Requirement 
Oxidation resistance 
acc. to CEC-L-48-A-97/B 
(192 h; 5 l air/h; +150 °C; 100 ml) 
6 
After testing is completed, the following requirements must be met: 
6.1 
Blotter-spot test / drippage area 
 
No solid or adhesive residues. 
6.2 
 Viscosity 
acc. to DIN 51 562-1 
at +100 °C 
% 
≤ 15 
6.3 
 TAN (total acid number) 
acc. to ASTM D 664-98 
MgKOH/
g 
to be specified 
7 
Foaming behavior 
acc. to ASTM D 892 
New oil 
at +25 °C / after 20 s 
ml 
≤ 20 / 0 
7.1 
at +95 °C / after 20 s 
ml 
≤ 50 / 0 
Oil after aging 
acc. to CEC-L-48-A-97/B 
(24 h at +140 °C) 
at +25 °C / after 20 s 
ml 
≤ 20 / 0 
7.2 
at +95 °C / after 20 s 
ml 
≤ 50 / 0 
Air release property 
acc. to DIN 51 381 
at +50 °C 
After aging  
 
acc. to CEC-L-48-A-97/B 
 
(24 h at +140 °C) 
Air-in-oil dispersion 
(requirements based on 
DIN 51 381) 
after 1 min 
Vol. % 
≤ 2.5 
after 2 min 
Vol. % 
≤ 1.8 
8 
after 3 min 
Vol. % 
≤ 1.2 
9 
Air-in-oil dispersion 
acc. to ”Infineum Dynamic Flow 
Air Entrainment Test Apparatus" 
(test duration 15 min / air quantity 300 cm³/min) 
at +90 °C 
9.1 
after 2 min 
Vol. % 
≤ 5 
at +120 °C 
9.2 
after 2 min 
Vol. % 
≤ 17 
10 
Shear stability 
acc. to CEC-L-45-A-99 
10.1 
Viscosity after shearing 
acc. to DIN 51 562-1 
mm²/s 
≥ 5.5 
10.2 
Shear loss 
% 
≤ 15 
 


Page 7 
TL 521 78: 2002-11 
 
7 
Functional requirements 
See Table 5. 
Table 5 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
Requirement 
1 
Elastomer compatibility 
(static inclusion tests) 
see Section 8.2 
Tensile strength 
acc. to DIN 53 504 
Relative change 
1.1 
Acrylate elastomer 
% 
+30 to -20 
Elongation at tear 
acc. to DIN 53 504 
Relative change 
1.2 
Acrylate elastomer 
% 
+10 to -40 
1.3 
Formation of cracks 
at 100% elongation 
 
not permissible 
2 
Elastomer compatibility 
(dynamic radial shaft seal tests) 
2.1 
Test run with ACM radial shaft seal 
See Section 8.4 
2.1.1 
Leakage 
 
none 
2.1.2 
Sealing lip wear 
mm 
≤ 0.4 
2.1.3 
Radial force loss 
% 
≤ 30 
2.1.4 
Oil deposits and discoloration of the 
radial shaft seal 
 
slight, soft oil residues permissible 
2.1.5 
Formation of cracks on the sealing lip 
at ~ 50 % elongation 
 
none 
Refer to VW 011 50 and following for information not specified herein. 
3 
Compatibility with thrust washer 
composite 
acc. to PV 1471 
 
µ1 > µ2 ≥ µ3 
Coefficient of friction between µ1 and 
µ3 
always ≥ µ3 (N 052 178 01) 
3.1 
PA 6.6 at 100 °C 
RSF 
≤ 0.20 
3.2 
PPA at 100°C 
RSF 
≤ 0.20 
4 
Pitting capacity  
acc. to PT C/9/90 
(FZG2 pitting test) 
h 
> 270 
(3 trials / individual values must be 
indicated) 
Gray staining (micropitting) 
Test oil 
 
better than reference oil 
VW reference oil 
see Section 8.3 
 
to be specified 
4.1 
Profiles 
 
to be submitted 
5 
Limit of load capacity 
acc. to DIN 51 354-2 
(FZG test A/16.6/90) 
SKS 
> 12 
                                                
2 Institute for Machine Elements; Gear Research Centre 


Page 8 
TL 521 78: 2002-11 
 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
Requirement 
6 
Fuel economy 
Steady-state temperature 
acc. to PV 1454 
Test oil 
 
better than reference oil 
6.1 
VW reference oil 
see Section 8.3 
 
to be specified 
Loss coefficient VG 
acc. to PV 1456 
 
see Appendix A.2 
Test oil 
 
better than reference oil 
6.2 
VW reference oil 
see Section 8.3 
 
to be specified 
7 
Behavior with regard to synchronizing facilities 
At high friction 
acc. to CEC-L-66-T-99 
(test stand FZG SSP 180) 
Synchronizer ring material 
 
TL 081 
Drawing number 
 
02A 311 269 A 
Shifting force 
N 
500 
Speed difference 
rpm 
1,100 
Oil temperature 
°C 
80 
Oil flow rate 
l/min 
1.5 
Shift cycle time 
rpm 
12 
Moment of inertia weight 
kgm² 
0.04 
Number of shifts achieved 
 
≥ 100,000 
Axial reserve path 
mm 
≥ 0.4 
7.1 
Coefficient of friction after 100,000 
shifts 
 
≥ 0.08 
VW 085 – Transmission 
acc. to PV 1455 
Shift operation 
 
2 – 3 – 2 
Number of shifts achieved 
 
≥ 150,000 
Axial reserve path 
mm 
≥ 0.4 
7.2 
Coefficient of friction after 150,000 
shifts 
 
≥ 0.08 
8 
Notes on testing, explanations 
The requirement "according to sample" is a quality specification of a released sample. 
The requirement "to be specified" is for general information of the sample presented, from which 
a concrete requirement can be derived later. 
8.1 
Additive type 
8.1.1 
Released additive types 
 
N 052 178 00 
"Infineum T 4804" Deutsche Infineum GmbH 
 
N 052 178 01 
"Infineum T 4806" Deutsche Infineum GmbH 


Page 9 
TL 521 78: 2002-11 
 
8.1.2 
Released transmission oils 
 
N 052 178 00: 
Code No. EEC 17494 C 
 
N 052 178 01: 
Code No. IME 12696 A 
8.2 
Elastomer compatibility 
S3A standard specimens according to DIN 53 504; test duration: 192 h; test temperature: +140 °C; 
specimen/oil ratio: 1 : 80 according to PV 3323. 
Source of supply for reference elastomers: 
 
Acrylate elastomer 
"70 ACM/121433" by Freudenberg Dichtungs– und Schwingungstechnik KG 
8.3 
VW reference oil 
“FVA3 reference oil no. 2 with 4 % Anglamol 99" 
8.4 
Test run with ACM radial shaft seal  
See Table 6. 
Table 6 
Drawing No. 
02M 409 189 
Material 
70 ACM 121433 
Manufacturer 
Freudenberg 
Number of test specimens 
6 
Test conditions: 
Running time 
240 h (10 cycles) 
Radial runout deviation 
≤ 0.15 mm 
Coaxiality tolerance 
≤ 0.20 mm 
One test cycle consists of 3 steps according to Table 7 
Table 7 
Step 
no. 
Test time 
h:min 
Temperature
°C 
Speed 
rpm 
Direction of rotation 
1 
14:00 
110 
2,000 
right 
2 
6:00 
130 
2,000 
right 
3 
4:00 
25 
0 
at rest 
 
                                                
3 Forschungsvereinigung Antriebstechnik (German research association for powertrain engineering) 


Page 10 
TL 521 78: 2002-11 
 
9 
Referenced standards4 
TL 081 
Copper Zinc Alloy; Material Requirements 
PV 1401 
Lubricating Oils; Testing the Corrosion Protection 
PV 1425 
Lubricating Oil; Testing the Corrosivity 
PV 1448 
Lubricants; PAH Determination 
PV 1454 
Transmission Oil; Testing the Temperature Change in the Deep-Groove 
Thrust Ball Bearing Temperature Adapter 
PV 1455 
Transmission Oils; Testing the Compatibility of Transmission Oils with 
Synchronizing Facilities in Manual Transmissions 
PV 1456 
Transmission Oil; Testing the Influence of Transmission Oil on Efficiency 
PV 1471 
Transmission Oils; Defining the Coefficient of Friction/Slip Velocity Profile in 
the One-Piece Thrust Washer Tribosystem 
PV 3323 
Test Vessels and Specimen Holders for Aging Standard Specimens 
VW 011 50 
Radial Shaft Seals for Motor Vehicles 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 505 50 
Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons; Pollutant Limitations 
VW 911 01 
Vehicle Environmental Standard; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids; 
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN 51 354-2 
Testing of Lubricants; FZG Gear Test Rig, 
Method A/8,3/90 for Lubricating Oils 
DIN 51 363-2 
Determining the Phosphorus Content of Lubricating Oils and Additives by 
Wavelength-Dispersive X-Ray Fluorescence Spectrometry 
DIN 51 377 
Determining the Apparent Viscosity of Engine Oils at Temperatures from -5 
°C to -35 °C using the Cold-Cranking Simulator 
DIN 51 381 
Testing of Lubricating Oils, Governor Oils and Hydraulic Fluids; 
Determination of Air Release Properties 
DIN 51 391-1 
Testing of Lubricants – Determination of Additive Elements - Part 1: Direct 
Determination by Atomic Absorption Spectrometry 
DIN 51 391-2 
Testing of Lubricants; Determination of the Content of Additive Elements - 
Part 2: Analysis by Wavelength Dispersive X-Ray Specttrometry (XRS) 
DIN 51 398 
Testing of Lubricants; Procedure for Measurement of Low Temperature 
Apparent Viscosity by Means of the Brookfield Viscometer (Liquid Bath 
Method) 
DIN 51 451 
Testing of Petroleum Products and Related Products – Analysis by Infrared 
Spectrometry – General Working Principles 
DIN 51 562-1 
Viscosimetry – Measurement of Kinematic Viscosity by Means of the 
Ubbelohde Viscometer – Part 1: Viscometer Specification and Measurement 
Procedure 
DIN 51 581 
Testing of Petroleum Products – Determination of Evaporation Loss – Part 1: 
Noack Test 
DIN 51 757 
Testing of Mineral Oils and Related Materials; Determination of Density 
DIN 51 777-1 
Testing Mineral Oil Hydrocarbons and Solvents; Determination of Water 
Content according to Karl Fischer, Direct Method 
                                                
4 In this Section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
