# TL52064_EN.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 55 56 1
December 2002
Leather
Material Requirements
TL
520 64
Konzernnorm
6 Types: A, C, D, E, F, G
Descriptors: leather, cowhide, napa leather, laminating leather, steering wheel leather
D
Page 1 of 11
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards Dept.
I/GQ-32   Fr. von Wiren
I/ES-81
Tel.: +49-841 89
33904
Gradl
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standard Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Form FE 41 -10.99
Contents
       Page
1
Basic supply requirements ............................................................................................2
1.1
Appearance ..................................................................................................................2
2
Types and examples of application ...............................................................................2
2.1
Type A ..........................................................................................................................2
2.2
Type C ..........................................................................................................................2
2.3
Type D ..........................................................................................................................2
2.4
Type E ..........................................................................................................................3
2.5
Type F ..........................................................................................................................3
2.6
Type G..........................................................................................................................3
3
General.........................................................................................................................3
3.1
Conditioning..................................................................................................................3
3.2
Validity of requirements.................................................................................................3
3.3
Sampling.......................................................................................................................3
4
Material.........................................................................................................................4
5
Physical properties........................................................................................................4
6
Special requirements ....................................................................................................8
6.1
Absence of PCP............................................................................................................8
6.2
Cleaning possibilities and maintenance ........................................................................8
6.3
Layer thickness of the finish..........................................................................................8
6.4
Resistance against hot air 6).........................................................................................8
7
Notes on testing............................................................................................................8
8
Referenced standards.................................................................................................10
8.1
Group-wide standard...................................................................................................10
8.2
External standards ......................................................................................................10
8.3
Laws and regulations ..................................................................................................11
8.4
Other documents ........................................................................................................11
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to TL 520 64: 2002-07:
─ Section 1.1 expanded
─ Table 1, no. 3: DIN 53 327 added
─ Table 1, no. 6: DIN 53 309 added
─ Table 2, no. 13: DIN 75 202 replaced by VDA 75 202
─ Table 2, no. 15.5: Specification of solution added
─ Table 2, no. 18: Test specifications added
─ Section 5.1: Temperature specification and aging period for odor test added
Previous issues
TL 520 64: 1979-01, 1979-05, 1981-05,1981-11,1982-06, 1994-12,1997-02, 1999-10, 2002-07
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
The English translation is believed to be accurate.
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2
TL 520 64: 2002-12
D
1 
Basic supply requirements
Approval of first supply and changes acc. to VW 011 55.
Each change of material (e.g. raw material type, raw material origin, type of tanning, finish,
surface treatment) shall be resampled, retested and re-released in writing prior to usage in
standard production.
For a release, apart from pure material sampling, in-vehicle tests and manufacturing feasibility
tests with positive results are generally required, among others.
Avoidance of hazardous substances acc. to VW 911 01.
One skin is required for complete testing. The leather manufacturer shall clearly be identified on the
fleshside of the leather. The manufacturer identification must not adversely affect the leather
neither on the fleshside nor the surface side. It must not be recognizable on the surface side.
1.1 
Appearance
Leather for automotive equipment shall be pitted cowhide (except for defined fields of
application); the surface must not be treated in any way (e.g. by polishing, grinding, filling). It
shall be properly tanned acc. to the combined chromium-free and heavy metal-free method and
through-dyed. No grain looseness may occur.
The finish shall only consist of hydro-paint systems with polymers on polyurethane-,
polyacrylate- or combination systems.
The paint film of the leather shall be uniform, pliant and color fast. The fleshside shall be short-
fibered.
The leather shall not exhibit any flaw apart from the characteristics of real leather (e.g. fattening
wrinkles, healed scars, etc.) A separate document (maximum deviation sample catalog) serves
as an aid to evaluate the surface characteristics.
For evaluating haptic characteristics and appearance the original leather sample shall be used.
For evaluating the color, the color template (plastic plate at Audi or original leather sample at
Volkswagen, respectively) shall be used.
The desired leather thickness of 1.4 mm (see table 1, no. 1) only applies to seat covers; other
components are not concerned.
2 
Types and examples of application
2.1 
Type A
Napa leather, spray or press finish, embossed grain
2.2 
Type C
Napa leather, spray or press finish, natural grain
2.3 
Type D
Napa leather, natural (pure aniline leather), open-cell, treated water and oil repellent


Page 3
TL 520 64: 2002-12
D
2.4 
Type E
Steering wheel leather, selector leather, laminating leather for components
Same as types A, C or G or according to VW 501 03 and VW 501 04, optimized finish to enhance
the resistance to perspiration and abrasion, if necessary. Type and appearance of the leather are
to be determined in agreement with the supplier.
2.5 
Type F
Laminating leather (optimized with respect to shrinkage)
For the following components (full leather equipment): e.g. instrument panel, center console, upper
door and upper pillar trim, rear shelf, etc.
Same as types A, C or G, optimized finish to enhance the resistance to perspiration and abrasion,
if necessary. Type and appearance of the leather are to be determined in agreement with the
supplier.
2.6 
Type G
Napa leather, slightly finished (semi-aniline), treated water and oil repellent
3 
General
3.1 
Conditioning
Prior to testing, the specimens must be conditioned for at least 48 h in the DIN 50 014 -23/50-2
standard climate.
3.2 
Validity of requirements
The required numerical values apply to each individual measurement.
3.3 
Sampling
Physical testing according to DIN 53 302-1
Chemical testing according to DIN 53 302-2


Page 4
TL 520 64: 2002-12
D
4 
Material
For requirements see table 1:
Table 1
Requirements, types
No.
Properties
Unit
A
C
D
E
F
G
1
Thickness
DIN 53 326
mm
1.2 ± 0.2 (as close as possible to the upper limit 1.4)
2
Gross density
DIN 53 327
g/cm3
0.6 to 0.8
3
Weight per unit area
DIN 53 327
g/m2
700 to 900
4
Fat content
DIN EN ISO 4048
%
7 to 12
PH value
DIN EN ISO 4045
≥ 3.5
5
Differential number
≤ 0.7
6
Chromium content
DIN 53 309
%
≤ 0.10
5 
Physical properties
For requirements see table 2:
Table 2
Requirements, types
No.
Properties
Unit
A
C
D
E
F
G
1
Maximum tensile strength
DIN 53 328
Specimen 2
N
Mean value (of 5 specimens) ≥ 130 N
Individual value ≥ 80 N
2
Elongation at break
DIN 53 328
Specimen 2
%
35 to 60
3
Load/displacement curve
DIN 53 328
Specimen 2
Result is to be provided
4
Stitch tear resistance
DIN 53 331, mandrel
N
≥ 60
5
Tear propagation strength
DIN 53 329 Procedure A
N
≥ 25
6
Elongation and restoring
behavior 1)
6.1
Static elongation
%
Result is to be provided
6.2
Permanent elongation,
measured after 30 minutes
%
Result is to be provided
6.3
Tension set 1)
%
Result is to be provided


Page 5
TL 520 64: 2002-12
D
Requirements, types
No.
Properties
Unit
A
C
D
E
F
G
7
Flexural rigidity PV 3903
7.1
Grain side, bottom
N
≤ 1.0
7.2
Grain side, top
N
≤ 1.6
8
Resistance to water 2) 
No color changes, no marks on the grain side
9
Perspiration resistance
of the grain side acc. to
DIN EN ISO 105-E04
Adjacent material: Cotton
nettle cloth, undyed
acc. to DIN EN ISO 105-X12
Evaluation of bleeding
acc. to DIN EN 20 105-A03
Alcaline solution
Gray-scale level
Grade
≥ 4-5
≥ 4-5
≥ 4
≥ 4-5
≥ 4-5
≥ 4
10
Behavior at permanent
folding
DIN EN 13 334
10.1
Dry test at room temperature
(RT)
After 100,000 flexes
no visible cracking 3)
10.2
After hydrolysis test
168 h at 70 °C and 70 %
relative humidity, 24 h drying
at room temperature
After 5,000 flexes
no visible cracking 3)
for types A, C and G
cracking evaluation after 1,000 flexes
10.3
After low temperature test at
-10 °C
After 30,000 flexes
no visible cracking 3)
10.4
High-temperature light
exposure
VDA 75 202
3 periods
After 10,000 flexes
micro cracking permissible 3)
11
Water vapor permeability
DIN 53 333
mg/cm2 h ≥ 1.0
≥ 1.5
≥ 7
---
---
≥ 2.0
12
Heat resistance
12.1
Aging for 144 h at 100 °C
mechanically circulated air
Color change
DIN EN 20 105-A02
Gray-scale level
Grade
≥ 4
≥ 4
≥ 3 - 4
≥ 4
≥ 4
≥ 4
12.2
Aging for 4 h at 120 °C
mechanically circulated air
Color change
DIN EN 20 105-A02
Gray-scale level
Grade
≥ 4
≥ 4
≥ 3 - 4
≥ 4
≥ 4
≥ 4


Page 6
TL 520 64: 2002-12
D
Requirements, types
No.
Properties
Unit
A
C
D
E
F
G
13
Fastness to high-
temperature light, high-
temperature light aging
3 periods VDA 75 202
Evaluation
DIN EN 20 105-A02
Gray-scale level
Grade
≥ 4
≥ 4
≥ 3
≥ 4
≥ 4
≥ 4
14
Adhesive strength of the
finish PV 3354
N
14.1
As-received condition
14.1.1 Dry
N
≥ 4.0
---
≥ 4.0
14.1.2 Wet (1 h aging in water)
N
≥ 1.2
---
≥ 1.2
14.2
After 100,000 flexes
N
≥ 3.5
---
---
---
≥ 3.5
14.3
After high-temperature light
exposure
3 periods, VDA 75 202
N
≥ 3.5
---
≥ 3.5
15
Fastness to rubbing
DIN EN ISO 11640
at 10% material elongation
and 10 N load
Evaluation of the gray-scale
level:
Specimen:
DIN EN 20 105-A02,
Felt: DIN EN 20 105-A03
Dry
Number of strokes
2 000
120
2 000
500
15.1
Gray-scale level
5
Wet
Number of strokes
500
20
500
500
75
15.2
Gray-scale level
≥ 4-5
≥ 4
≥ 4-5
≥ 4-5
≥ 4
Alkaline perspiration solution
Number of strokes
100
20
200
100
50
15.3
Gray-scale level
≥ 4-5
≥ 4
≥ 4
≥ 4-5
≥ 4
Special boiling point spirit
DIN 51 631 type 2
Number of strokes
20
10
20
10
15.4
Gray-scale level
≥ 4-5
≥ 3-4
≥ 4-5
≥ 4
Neutral soap *)
Number of strokes
100
50
100
50
15.5
Gray-scale level
≥ 4-5
≥ 4
≥ 4-5
≥ 4
 Color shift not permissible.


Page 7
TL 520 64: 2002-12
D
Requirements, types
No.
Properties
Unit
A
C
D
E
F
G
Ethanol
Number of strokes
5
15.6
Gray-scale level
≥ 4
Abrasion characteristics
DIN 53 109,
n = 50 rpm,
Friction wheel CS 10,
Load 10 N
Number of rotations
500
500
---
500
500
300
16
Type of damage
(excluding type D):
No visible surface damage
(wrinkle formation is not evaluated)
17
Shrinking behavior 4)
17.1
After environmental cycle
aging based on PV 1200
96 h acc. to PV 1200, but at
70 °C and 70 % relative
humidity
%
≤ 5
≤ 5
≤ 5
≤ 5
≤ 1.5
≤ 5
17.2
After environmental cycle
aging 5) (simulation of moist
heat)
%
≤ 6
17.3
After 168 h aging at elevated
temperature (120°C
mechanically circulated air)
%
≤ 5
≤ 5
≤ 5
≤ 5
≤ 3
≤ 5
18
Dirt repellency
18.1
Oil repellency
Test acc. to AATCC 118
---
≥ 4
≥ 4
---
---
≥ 4
18.2
Water/alcohol drop test
3M method
Grade
---
≥ 4
≥ 4
---
---
≥ 4
18.3
Oil repellency after abrasion
characteristics test according
to no. 16
Grade
---
≥ 2
≥ 2
---
---
≥ 2
19
Burning behavior acc. to US
Law 571 302
Grade
Acc. to TL 1010 D (if required in drawing or release)
*) Neutral soap solution with water, 2.5 % solution with color fastness test soap no. 77 by HENKEL


Page 8
TL 520 64: 2002-12
D
Requirements, types
No.
Properties
Unit
A
C
D
E
F
G
Emissions acc. to VW 501
80 and guideline for use no.
3211 issued by Audi
laboratory in Ingolstadt,
Germany
Emissions
≤ 100 µgC/g
Fogging
≤ 5 mg
Odor
Test acc. to PV 3900
(for shipments to AUDI AG:
2 h aging at 50 °C)
Typical for leather, not disturbing
20
Formaldehyde
≤ 10 mg/kg
6 
Special requirements
6.1 
Absence of PCP
In the manufacturing of leather for car equipment no auxiliaries containing PCP shall be used in
any stage of processing. The supplier shall always be able to observe and to document the limit
values according to VW 911 01 "Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Avoidance of Hazardous
Substances".
6.2 
Cleaning possibilities and maintenance
It shall be possible to clean the leather properly with water and commercial detergents based on
neutral soap.
The surface shall be cleanable with a cloth moistened with commercial petroleum ether (boiling
range 80 to 110°C) without producing stains or marks.
6.3 
Layer thickness of the finish
The determination of layer thickness is realized by means of cryo-microsections, specimens cut
plane with a thickness of 10 µm which are affixed to the specimen slide and measured with a
microscope.
6.3.1 
Types A, E and F, embossed leather
Layer thickness ≤ 45 µm
6.3.2 
Types C, E and F, non-embossed leather
Layer thickness ≤ 20 µm
6.3.3 
Type G, non-embossed leather
Layer thickness ≤ 10 µm
6.4 
Resistance against hot air 6)
There shall be no color changes on the leather surface after testing.


Page 9
TL 520 64: 2002-12
D
7 
Notes on testing
1) Determination of the static and permanent elongation according to PV 3909 on 5 parallel
specimens with a width of (50±1) mm and a length of (190±10) mm cut crosswise and
lengthwise out of the area A of the skin. Static load is 50 N. The distance between the
measuring marks is (100 ± 0.5) mm.
Calculation of the tension set:
Permanent elongation
Tension set =
x 100 %
Static elongation
2) 1 ml deionized water drops are applied to the fleshside of the leather. Evaluation after drying at
room temperature (approx. 4 h).
3) The formation of cracks is tested with a magnifying glass with 6 times enlargement.
4) Specimen dimensions and measurement surface see figure 1:
Hanging in a climate chamber for the duration of the test.
In order to determine linear shrinking, the edge length of the measurement surface is measured
before and after aging, edge-specific shrinking is calculated using these differences and the
mean value is drawn up using the individual shrinking values.
Figure 1
5) Environmental cycle aging (simulation of moist heat)
Execution:
4 h aging at (40 ± 2) °C and (90 ± 2) % relative air humidity
2 h heating to 120 °C
4 h aging at (120 ± 2) °C
2 h cooling down to 40 °C and 90 % relative humidity
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 cycle
=   12 h
total: 20 cycles
= 240 h
6) A piece of leather (specimen size see figure 2) is blown at for 15 to 20 s with a hot-air blower
from a distance of 100 to 120 mm (distance leather surface – nozzle opening).
Temperature at leather surface is 120 to 140 °C.
Temperature of the air leaving the nozzle of the hot air fan is approx. 280 °C.
Figure 2
D
C
A
B
Specimen size 200 mm x 200 mm
Test surface 100mm x 100
Test surface 200 x 200 mm
Specimen size 300 x 300 mm


Page 10
TL 520 64: 2002-12
D
8 
Referenced standards
8.1 
Group-wide standard
TL 1010
Materials for Vehicle Interiors
PV 1200
Environmental Cycle Test, but with 70 °C and 70 % relative humidity
PV 3354
Leather Testing, Adhesive Strength of the Finish
PV 3900
Components in Passenger Compartment; Odor Test
PV 3903
Non-Metallic Planar Fabrics; Measurement of Flexural Rigidity
PV 3909
Non-Metallic Planar Fabrics, Measurement of the Static and Permanent Elongation
VW 011 55
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 501 03
Special Leather
VW 501 04
Special Leather
VW 501 80
Components in Passenger Compartment, Emissions Behavior
VW 911 01
Vehicle Environmental Standard; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids;
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
8.2 
External standards1
DIN 50 014
Climates and Their Technical Application; Standard Atmospheres
DIN 51 631
Mineral Spirits – Special Boiling Point Spirits - Requirements
DIN 53 109
Testing of Paper and Board; Determination of Abrasion by the Abrasion Wheel
Method
DIN 53 302-1
Testing of Leather; Sampling for Physical Testing
DIN 53 302-2
Testing of Leather; Sampling for Chemical Testing
DIN 53 309
Testing of Leather, Determination of the Chromous Oxide Content
DIN 53 326
Testing of Leather, Determination of Thickness
DIN 53 327
Testing of Leather, Determination of Bulk Density and Mass per Unit Area
DIN 53 328
Testing of Leather, Tensile Test
DIN 53 329
Testing of Leather and Artificial Leather, Tear Growth Test
DIN 53 331
Testing of Leather, Determination of the Stitch Tear Resistance
DIN 53 333
Testing of Leather, Artificial Leather and Textiles, Determination of the Water
Vapor Permeability
DIN EN 13 334
Leather, Physical and Mechanical Testing, Determination of Repeated Flexural
Strength according to the Flexometer Procedure
DIN EN 20 105-A02
Textiles; Tests for Colour Fastness, Part A02: Grey Scale for Assessing
Change in Colour
DIN EN 20 105-A03
Textiles; Tests for Colour Fastness, Part A02: Grey Scale for Assessing
Staining
DIN EN ISO 105-E04
Textiles; Tests for Colour Fastness, Part E04: Colour Fastness to Perspiration
DIN EN ISO 105-X12
Textiles; Tests for Colour Fastness, Part X12: Colour Fastness to Rubbing
DIN EN ISO 4045
Leather – Determination of pH
DIN EN ISO 4048
Leather – Determination Matter Soluble in Dichloromethane
                                               
1 In this section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
