# TL52631.pdf

Bumpers, Bumper Covers, Spoilers
Test Scope for Material Data Sheets
Previous issues
TL 52631: 2004-01, 2005-10
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to TL 52631: 2005-10:
–
UV requirements corrected
–
Ball drop test requirements for sill reduced
–
Additional note for testing of materials without available material data sheet
Scope
This Technical Supply Specification stipulates the component requirements of thermoplastic bumpers
(e.g., PP/EPDM/(PE) polymer blend with 10% talcum).
The limit and tolerance requirements can be found in the component-, material- and supplier-specific
material data sheets.
Description
See material data sheet.
Requirements
General requirements
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 01155.
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 91101.
At least 2 parts are required for complete testing.
1  
2  
3  
3.1  
Group Standard
TL 52631
Issue 2008-07
Class. No.:
55154
Descriptors:
bumper, cover, bumper cover, spoiler, thermoplastics, material data sheet
Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
Numerical notation acc. to ISO practice.
Page 1 of 9
Technical responsibility
Standards department
GQL-LP/4
Thomas Achtzehner
Tel.: +49 5361 9 76414
GQL-LP/4
Dr. Lutz Wohlfarth
GQL-LP
Dr. Roger Hillert
EKTC/4 Ute Hager-Süß
EKTC
Tel.: +49 5361 9 49035
Manfred Terlinden
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform "www.vwgroupsupply.com".
© VOLKSWAGEN AG
VWNORM-2007-10f
QUELLE: NOLIS
QUELLE: NOLIS


Material
See material data sheet and Section 5.6.
The technological material characteristics of the materials used for the components must ensure the
function and safety of the vehicle over the entire service life. Fillers such as glass fibers and modifying
agents for heat stabilization are permitted.
In the case of composite material components (metal/plastic), compatibility of the materials must be
ensured. If necessary, the materials must be matched to each other by means of pretreatments (e.g.,
bonding agents).
If the material for the finished part is changed during development or during ongoing standard pro‐
duction, this change must be presented and the changed material tested in all cases. A new technical
engineering release may be necessary.
Material grades that have not yet been recorded in the material data sheets must have been released
by the Testing Department of Design Engineering and must fulfill the general requirements of the
component. The new material grades can then be included in the material data sheets.
Therefore, materials that are not yet contained in the data sheet collection can generally also be used.
The data sheets are supplemented as part of the release test. This approach is meant to ensure that
newly developed materials can also be used!
Material data sheets (MDs for short) for the various types are available from the GQL-LP1 department
and also via NOLIS in the form of an appendix to the German original of this Technical Supply Spec‐
ification and can be requested by the responsible Quality Assurance departments of the producing
factories, as required (for an example of a material data sheet, see Appendix A).
Marking according to VDA 260
See material data sheet.
Types
According to drawing.
Manufacture
Injection molding
Appearance
The surface and interior of the components must be free of flaws and processing defects such as
flow lines, voids, cracks, or similar faults. Sink marks at the base of ribs or reinforcements are per‐
missible only if they do not adversely affect the part's function or appearance.
Aging
The components, and the specimens taken, must be aged for at least 48 h before the test in the
DIN 50014-23/50-2 standard climate (deviating aging procedures are described in the respective
material data sheets depending on the type of material).
Evaluation of measurement results
The required numerical values apply to each individual measurement.
3.2  
3.3  
3.4  
3.5  
3.6  
3.7  
3.8  
Page 2
TL 52631: 2008-07


Types according to material data sheet
The mechanical material data specified in a material data sheet always apply exclusively to the type
of one or more suppliers that has been evaluated positively in terms of the material and released by
the laboratory (according to Section 1.1 of the material data sheet).
General requirements for the finished part
The general requirements apply to every material grade and material combination. Mechanical prop‐
erties described in the material data sheets may vary on an individual basis according to the additional
requirements specified. In every case, both the general requirements and the material-specific re‐
quirements must be met in order to describe the material grade actually used on a component-specific
basis.
Temperature resistance
The component must be resistant to temperatures from -30 °C to +90 °C and must be functional for
the entire service life of the vehicle. If necessary, deviating limit temperatures must be determined;
if so, they must always be additionally specified.
Elevated-temperature behavior
See Section 5.1.
The components must not exhibit any changes in shape, color, and surface that would adversely
affect the function and/or appearance.
Low-temperature behavior with ball drop test
See Section 5.2.
No fracture, no cracking.
Resistance to agents
See Section 5.3.
The parts must be resistant to sealants and commercial car cleaning and care products such as 5%
detergent solution, industrial grade dust remover, and paint cleaner.
There must not be any changes, such as signs of separation, swelling, discoloration, and/or cracking.
Aging resistance
See Section 5.4.
The temperature level is based on the temperatures that the finished part will actually be subjected
to. Thus, different requirements could apply to the component in the area of the exhaust system. As
the aging behavior is heavily dependent on the material, this is described in the relevant material data
sheet, if necessary. If there is no information available on the actually occurring temperatures, the
following rule applies: aging must take place for 200 h at +150 °C in the forced ventilation oven.
3.9  
4  
4.1  
4.2  
4.3  
4.4  
4.5  
Page 3
TL 52631: 2008-07


Laboratory weathering tests
This section applies exclusively to unpainted parts; painted parts are tested according to the require‐
ments in Technical Supply Specification TL 211.
Sun test
Testing according to Test Specification PV 1323: 240 h and 480 h
ΔL = - 2 to + 2
Gray-scale level ≥ 4 according to DIN EN 20105-A02. No release criterion; serves to assess the risk
of the long-term tests (according to PV 3929 and PV 3930)
Kalahari test
Testing according to PV 3929 (1-year cycle).
The evaluation is performed visually; no fading to gray and/or decomposition permissible; a soot-like
deposit can be accepted, provided it can be completely removed.
Florida test
Testing according to PV 3930 (1-year cycle).
The evaluation is performed visually; no fading to gray and/or decomposition permissible; a soot-like
deposit can be accepted, provided it can be completely removed.
Resistance to open-air weathering
Resistance to open-air weathering according to VW 50185.
For risk assessment, the tests must be conducted as described in Section 4.6.
Transit coating removal test
See Section 5.5.
There must not be any changes, such as signs of separation, swelling, discoloration, and/or cracking.
Paint coating
According to TL 211; only if required in the drawing.
Notes on testing
Elevated-temperature behavior
Aging at elevated temperature according to DIN 53497, method B, to be performed with at least one
complete component.
Aging period: 24 h ± 2 h; aging temperature (unless otherwise specified): 90 °C ± 1 °C.
4.6  
4.6.1  
4.6.2  
4.6.3  
4.7  
4.8  
4.9  
5  
5.1  
Page 4
TL 52631: 2008-07


Low-temperature behavior with ball drop test
Bumper (covers/spoiler)
Ball drop test according to PV 3905 with at least three 70 mm x 70 mm finished part sections that are
as plane as possible, but with a base plate (specimen support) made from ≥ 10 mm thick sheet steel
without recess; ball weight is 880 g ± 5 g; ball drop height is 650 mm ± 10 mm; ball impact location
in specimen center of painted or grained top surface.
Outer sill covers
Deviating test conditions for outer sill cover parts:
Base plate with recess; ballweight 500 g ± 5 g
Resistance to agents
Finished part sections measuring 80 mm x 20 mm are immersed halfway in the following agents for
30 min at 23 °C ± 2 °C
–
5% detergent solution 1)
–
Industrial grade dust remover 1)
–
Paint cleaner 1)
–
Paint preservative 1)
(at least 1 specimen per agent). This treatment is to be followed by a 24 h period of aging in air at
23 °C ± 2 °C (having removed the specimen from the particular agent, let excess agent drip off only).
Afterwards, the specimen strips must be rubbed clean with a cloth soaked with water (for industrial
grade dust remover and detergent solution) or with petroleum ether. The specimens are then eval‐
uated.
Aging resistance
Continuous aging at elevated temperature in mechanically circulated air.
Test equipment:
Forced ventilation oven
Test temperature:
150 °C ± 1 °C; the test chamber must be set to generate
an average temperature of +150 °C in the immediate
vicinity of the test specimens (check with a calibrated
digital thermometer, placing the sensor near the speci‐
men).
Specimen:
100 mm x 10 mm trouser specimens; quantity: 10
Test procedure:
The test specimens are placed in the pre-heated forced
ventilation oven that is set to the test temperature. After
a period of 150 h, the first trouser specimen is taken from
the oven and, after cooling down to +23 °C (approx.
30 min), is slowly compressed between the index finger
and thumb until both ends meet. For grained and painted
specimens, the smooth or non-painted back side is the
tension side. If this specimen does not show any signs
of cracking (stress whitening is permissible), it is placed
back into the oven and after another aging period of 24 h
is tested again, etc. If there are signs of crack formation,
another, previously untested, trouser specimen is taken
5.2  
5.3  
5.4  
1)  e.g., products from the VOTEX program
Page 5
TL 52631: 2008-07


from the oven and evaluated. The test ends when a
specimen that has not been bent previously breaks dur‐
ing the first compression attempt.
Transit coating removal test
The transit coating removal test is performed as follows: Transit coating remover (Halpasol 190/240
made by Haltermann; depending on the location, the transit coating remover normally employed there
can also be used) is applied to the finished part using a saturated cotton rag and intensive wiping
motions along the longitudinal axis of the part (ten times in each direction with a pressure load of
approx. 7 N at +23 °C). The finished part is visually evaluated after 24 h flash-off time.
Material
Identification can be performed using the attenuated total reflection variant of the FTIR (Fourier
transform infrared spectroscopy) procedure.
Density
Buoyancy method; any existing coat of paint does not have to be removed.
Three specimens must be tested.
Yield stress/elongation at tear
Testing according to DIN EN ISO 527-2; specimen: 5A; test rate: 50 mm/min
Five specimens must be tested.
Flexural strength/modulus of elasticity
Determination of the flexural strength at maximum force according to DIN EN ISO 178.
Specimen dimensions:
80 mm x 10 mm x product thickness
Test rate:
1 mm/min
Support separation:
16 mm ± 1 mm x product thickness
Support radius:
2 mm ± 0,2 mm
Specimens taken from finished parts with one-sided graining and from painted finished parts must
be positioned on the support of the test machine so that the non-grained or non-painted side is sub‐
jected to tensile stress.
For testing flexural strength at different temperatures, it is best practice to use a bending device with
a specimen feed and specimen exchange mechanism. The test begins after a period of 30 min during
which a constant temperature is maintained. If the aforementioned equipment is not available and
the constant-temperature chamber must be opened for specimen exchange as a consequence,
measurement is taken after a further constant-temperature period of at least 15 min.
5 specimens must be tested in each case.
5.5  
5.6  
5.7  
5.8  
5.9  
Page 6
TL 52631: 2008-07


Notched impact strength
Testing according to DIN EN ISO 179-1/1eA; pendulum impact tester: 4 J according to DIN 51222.
Specimen dimensions:
80 mm x 10 mm x product thickness
Notch root radius:
0,25 mm ± 0,05 mm
Procedure:
Narrow side impact
Test criteria:
The “no fracture” requirement is complied with if the specimens are still in one piece after impact
resistance testing and the notch root does not show cracks entering the material.
A “partial fracture” exists when the test specimens are still in one piece after impact resistance testing
but the notch root shows cracks entering the material. The measured value output has no significance
here as the result can be corrupted due to the specimen being “dragged”.
A “hinge fracture” exists when the test specimen is still in one piece after impact resistance testing,
but strong cracks are entering the material from the notch root to the extent that both test specimen
halves are only connected via a hinge-like thin skin. In this case, the required “partial fracture” criterion
is not complied with.
Five specimens must be tested.
Vicat softening temperature
Vicat A according to DIN EN ISO 306/A50
Three measurements must be taken.
Specimen removal
For bumper covers, unless otherwise specified in the drawing, specimens must be taken from the top
side of the part center along the longitudinal axis and extending no more than 500 mm to the left and
right. For covers that are heavily ribbed on the inside, specimens must be taken such that they lie
exactly between two ribs or that the ribs are located at the ends of the specimen where they can be
removed with a scalpel.
Referenced documents
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary for application.
In this Section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
PV 1323
Nichtmetallische Werkstoffe; UV-Bestrahlung von Thermoplasten, außen,
im Suntest (only available in German)
PV 3905
Organic Materials; Ball Drop Test
PV 3929
Non-Metallic Materials; Weather Aging in Dry, Hot Climate
PV 3930
Non-Metallic Materials; Weathering in Moist, Hot Climate
TL 211
Painting on Exterior Plastic Parts; Requirements
VW 01155
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 50185
Vehicle Components; Resistance to Open Air Weathering
5.10  
5.11  
5.12  
6  
Page 7
TL 52631: 2008-07


VW 91101
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
DIN 50014
–
DIN 51222
Materials testing machines - Impact test - Particular requirements on pen‐
dulum impact testing machines with a capacity of nominal energy <kleiner
=> 50 J and verification
DIN 53497
Testing of Plastics; Hot Storage Test on Mouldings Made of Thermoplastic
Moulding Materials without External Mechanical Stressing
DIN EN 20105-A02
Textiles - Tests for colour fastness - Part A02: Grey scale for assessing
change in colour
DIN EN ISO 178
Plastics - Determination of flexural properties
DIN EN ISO 179-1
Plastics - Determination of Charpy impact properties - Part 1: Non-instru‐
mented impact test
DIN EN ISO 306
Plastics - Thermoplastic materials - Determination of Vicat softening tem‐
perature (VST)
DIN EN ISO 527-2
Plastics - Determination of tensile properties - Part 2: Test conditions for
moulding and extrusion plastics
VDA 260
Components of motor vehicles; marking of material
Page 8
TL 52631: 2008-07


 
Example of a Material Data Sheet
See Figure A.1.
Figure A.1
Appendix A (normative)  
A.1  
Page 9
TL 52631: 2008-07


 
Dezember 2008 
Datenblatt zu TL 52631 
Prüfumfang für Stoßfänger und Schwellerabdeckungen 
 
 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
 
D
 
Fortsetzung Seite 2 bis 17 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
 
 
GQL-LP/4 
Achtzehner 
 
 
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung einer Normenabteilung des Volkswagen Konzerns nicht gestattet. 
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung. 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
 
Dieses Datenblatt beschreibt die teilspezifischen  
Werkstoffanforderungen an Stoßfängern und Schwellerabdeckungen 
in Verbindung mit TL 52631 
 
 
Hinweis zur Anwendung des Datenblattes 
Vor der Anwendung dieses Kennblattes muss der Nutzer sicherstellen, dass die Unterlage dem 
letztgültigen Stand entspricht. 
 
 
Der jeweils gültige Änderungsstand sowie die neueste Ausgabe kann 
 
- 
dem System NOLIS (TL 52631) entnommen  
 
oder 
 
- 
beim Fachverantwortlichen erfragt werden 
 
 
Fachverantwortung liegt bei: 
 
Volkswagen AG, Werk Wolfsburg 
GQL-LP/4 
Brieffach 1437 
Thomas Achtzehner 
D-38436 Wolfsburg 
Telefon: +49 (0) 5361 / 9-76414 
Telefax: +49-5361-957-76414 
E-Mail: thomas.achtzehner@volkswagen.de 
 
 
Hinweis: 
Gesamtumfang Datenblatt 
17 Seiten 
 
 
Änderungsstand: 
Ausgabe 12.2008: Letzte Materialqualität: Daplen EH104AE  
 
 
 
 
