# TL52132.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 25 4 
August 2004 
Lubricant for Threaded Fastening Elements with 
Electrolytically Applied Coatings 
or those of Stainless Steel 
Requirements 
TL 
521 32 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
lubricant, electrolytically zinc coated, Cr(VI)-free, stainless steel, 
threaded fastening element, screw, bolt, coefficient of friction 
 
Page   
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
2-NQ-HK4 
Dr. Maikowski 
Tel: -4533 
Frau Hager-Süß Tel: +49-5361-9-49035 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 521 32, 1986-01: 
 
Standard restructured 
 
Content revised 
Previous issues 
1986-01 
1 
Scope 
This Technical Supply Specification stipulates the requirements for lubricants in electrolytically 
produced zinc and zinc alloy systems – Cr(VI)-free – for metric threaded fastening elements with 
surface protection types according to Volkswagen standard VW 137 50 and for joining elements 
made from stainless, high-alloyed chromium steel. 
2 
Designation 
Lubricant according to TL 521 32 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
When fastening, the lubricant coating must 
 
reduce the coefficient of friction (total friction coefficient range µtot = 0.09 to 0.15; 
see VW 011 29) and 
 
narrow the scatter range. 
as compared to untreated threaded fastening elements. 
The lubricant coating must be suitable for Cr(VI)-free zinc coatings and must not itself 
contain Cr(VI). 
In order to check the coating (Yes/No statement), a UV inhibitor must be contained as an indicator. 
3.2 
Standard part number 
N 052 132 00 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 521 32: 2004-08 
 
3.3 
Type 
Water-dispersed synthetic polymers (PE suspension) that, after application and drying, produce 
a friction film/layer that is resistant to handling (commercial products include, for example, 
Microgleit DF 911/DF 921 
produced 
by 
the 
Microgleit company, 
Gleitmo 605/625 
from 
Fuchs Lubritec or Torque’N’Tension Control Fluid from the MacDermid company). 
Note: The properties of the products differ in part and must be tested for the relevant application 
with respect to the friction coefficients to be achieved. Special influences such as threading 
speeds, counter layers and operational temperatures of the joining elements in contact must be 
taken into consideration. 
Thus, for example, Microgleit DF 911, Gleitmo 605 and T’N’T Control Fluid are particularly suited 
for coating galvanized joining elements. Gleitmo 625 and Microgleit DF 921 are preferred for 
stainless steel joining elements; the coefficient-of-friction-reducing effect is particularly strong here. 
The coating medium must be silicone-free and must not contain any substances that would 
require it to be labeled as hazardous to health (Xn) according to the Hazardous Substances 
Regulation. 
3.4 
Requirements for the lubricant coating process 
 
It must be ensured that no residues of chromic acid, chromic solutions or other acid residues 
can enter into the lubricant coating bath. 
 
A process-sure, even wetting of the surface with lubricant shall be guaranteed. 
Before the lubricant is applied, the parts to be coated should be dry and warmed slightly 
(approx. 40 °C to 50 °C; not above 75 °C). The temperature of the coating medium must not 
drop below 20 °C during the coating process (optimal: 25 °C to 35 °C; not above 75 °C). 
 
The coating medium is generally supplied as a concentrate. The mixing ratio of the coating 
medium concentrate and water must be selected such that the required friction coefficients are 
achieved and maintained. Empirical standard value: 1 part coating medium to 3 parts water 
(e.g., for Microgleit DF 911, Gleitmo 605 or Torque’N’Tension Control Fluid). 
 
The bath concentration shall be tested by determining the dry residue or using a refractometer, 
and documented. 
 
The bath must be checked (pH value) in accordance with the specifications of the coating 
medium manufacturer (frequency: minimum 1 x per shift/day, taking into consideration the 
specified limit values). 
 
Coated threaded parts should preferably be dried in a through-type system, but a centrifugal 
system is also possible. Drying must be performed at a speed suited to the parts spectrum and 
with the application of heat. The exact settings (speed, temperature, filling quantity) are to be 
determined by the coating operator in cooperation with the coating medium manufacturer, and 
documented. Here, the maximum permitted temperature for the coating system must be 
observed, e.g., max. 90 °C for Cr(VI)-free passivation treatments. 
 
In order to avoid the risk of condensation, the parts shall be packed in a dry state and only 
after reaching ambient (room) temperature. 
 
The efficacy of the lubricant coating with respect to the friction coefficients of the threaded 
fastening elements is to be checked in coordination with the accepting factory. 
Note: If elements that have already been coated with lubricant are coated once again, this can yield 
different friction coefficients than for the first coating. 


Page 3 
TL 521 32: 2004-08 
 
4 
Referenced standards*) 
VW 011 29 
Limit Values for Coefficients of Friction; Mechanical Joining Elements with Metric 
ISO Thread 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 137 50 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Degrees of Protection, Codes, Requirements 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids; 
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
                                                
*) 
In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
