# TL52146.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 31 8 
November 2002 
Central Hydraulic System Fluid 
Lubricant Requirements 
TL 
521 46 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
central hydraulic system fluid, power steering, automatic level control, 
hydraulic brake booster 
 
 
Page 1 of 9 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733) 
 
K-QS-33 
Engelen 
Tel:-23013 
Frau Hager-Süß Tel: +49-5361-9-49035 
Sobanski 
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung einer Normenabteilung des Volkswagen Konzerns nicht gestattet. 
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung. 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 12.00 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to TL 521 46: 1990-03: 
─ 
Standard restructured 
─ 
VW 911 01 added 
─ 
Referenced standards updated 
Previous issues 
1989-02, 1990-03 
1 
Scope 
This standard specifies the lubricant requirements for central hydraulic system fluid. 
2 
Designation 
Central hydraulic system fluid according to TL 521 46 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
2 l must be delivered to the VW Central Laboratories for evaluation. 
In addition, test certificates must be submitted for the specified requirements. 
Other tests, such as function tests, road trials and manufacturing feasibility tests are required for an 
evaluation. 100 l are required for this. 
The evaluation statement automatically expires 3 years after granting release or when the central 
hydraulic system fluid formulation is changed. With regular deliveries and quality control records 
according to section 4.4, the release remains. 
VW Central Laboratories must be informed of changes to the formulation, which require a new 
sample and written release. 
If the release is revoked, the supplier must forward this information to the concerned parts 
suppliers of the VW Group. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 521 46: 2002-11 
 
3.2 
Type 
This central hydraulic system fluid is a special hydraulic fluid based on synthetic and mineral oils 
with ash-free additives to improve the viscosity, coefficient of friction, wear protection, oxidation 
protection, foam protection and corrosion protection. 
Central hydraulic system fluids according to this technical supply specification display optimal 
performance in power steering systems (power steering, automatic level control, hydraulic brake 
boosters). 
3.3 
Miscibility 
Central hydraulic system fluids according to this specification must be miscible with one another in 
any ratio without limitation. The mixtures must also correspond to all requirements of this 
specification. The documentation must be provided for a mixing ratio of 50:50. 
3.4 
Service temperature range (- 40 to + 140°C) 
See table 1. 
Table 1 
Time 
Temperature 
1 % of the service life 
120 to 140°C 
9 % of the service life 
100 to 120°C 
90% of the service life 
≤ 100°C 
3.5 
Shelf life 
Shelf life in unopened original packaging is greater than 24 months at -20°C to + 50°C. 
3.6 
Standard part number 
─ 
N 052 146 00 
─ 
N 052 146 01 
3.7 
Spare parts number 
G 002 000 / A7/ A8 
3.8 
Technical engineering approval 
The material according to this TL is subject to technical engineering approval. 
3.9 
Responsible department 
Volkswagen AG: 
EFVA and K-QS-33  Audi AG: 
 I/EF-41 and N/GQ-553 
3.10 
First-sample test 
For mixing a first sample, the supplier provides the Quality Assurance Department of the ordering 
plant with 2 liters of the end product mixed according to production conditions with a VDA first 
sample test report. 


Page 3 
TL 521 46: 2002-11 
 
This report must contain the results according to sections 5 to 7. 
The first-sample release is issued by the Quality Assurance Department of the ordering plant. 
3.11 
Manufacturing batch testing 
If the oil supplier mixes a certain quantity of the finished product, this total quantity is designated as 
a manufacturing batch and given a manufacturing report number. 
The supplier shall provide VW with 2 liters of the mixed end product and the test reports according 
to section 3.10. 
The manufacturing batch release occurs after the release cycle (Appendix A) by the quality control 
department of the oil supplier. 
If different manufacturing batches (max. 2) are stored in one tank and the shipment is taken from 
this tank, both manufacturing batch numbers and fill report numbers (section 3.10) are to be given 
on the delivery slip. 
3.12 
Delivery batch 
If the oil supplier removes one or more separate partial quantities from the total quantity of a 
manufacturing batch at different times and delivers them to the ordering party or stores them, each 
partial quantity is designated as its own fill batch and given a fill report number in addition to the 
manufacturing report number. 
When delivering in drums, only clean drums must be used. For bulk deliveries, the tank car shall be 
cleaned before filling. 
The Quality Assurance Department of the ordering plant receives a plant testing certificate 
(DIN EN 10 204) with each shipment. The plant testing certificate includes the manufacturing and 
fill report numbers as well as the test values according to the testing schedule per section 3.10. 
3.13 
Test plan 
See table 2. 
Table 2 
Tests 
Manufacturing batches 
Delivery batch 
Laboratory tests 
Table 3 
No. 1, no. 2 and 
no. 4 *) to no. 7 and no. 8 
Table 3 
No. 1, no. 2 and 
no. 4 *) to no. 7 and no. 8 
Evaporation loss 
Table 4, No. 1 *) 
 
Oil purity 
Table 4, No. 3 
Table 4, No. 3 
Oxidation stability 
Table 4, No. 5 *) 
 
Foaming behavior 
Table 4, No. 6 *) 
 
Air release property 
Table 4, No. 7 *) 
 
*) These tests must be performed 1 x per year. 
 


Page 4 
TL 521 46: 2002-11 
 
4 
Requirements for composition, density and viscosity 
See table 3. 
Table 3 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
Requirement 
1 
Appearance / color  
acc. to ASTM D 6045 
 
Clear / green 
Coloring with petrol green, 0.005% 
2 
IR spectrum 
acc. to DIN 51 451 
 
acc. to sample 
3 
Base oils 
3.1 
Type and content 
(CA, CP, CN) 
% 
to be specified 
3.2 
Compliance with VW environmental 
standard VW 911 01 
% 
to be specified 
3.3 
PAH content per 
VW 505 50 and PV 1448 
% 
to be specified 
3.4 
Viscosity index of the base oil 
(without VII) 
acc. to DIN ISO 2909 
% 
to be specified 
4 
Elements 
(Mg, Ca, Ba, Zn, B, N, P, S, Cl) 
X-ray spectrum of the total oil 
% 
to be specified 
 
acc. to sample 
5 
Water content 
acc. to DIN 51 777-1 
mg/kg 
≤ 500 
6 
Density 
acc. to DIN 51 757 
g/cm3 
acc. to sample 
7 
Pour point 
acc. to DIN ISO 3016 
°C 
≤ -50 
8 
Kinematic viscosity according to DIN 51 562-1 
8.1 
for 100°C 
mm2/s 
≥ 6.0 
8.2 
for 40°C 
mm2/s 
acc. to sample 
8.3 
for -40°C 
mm2/s 
≤ 1100 (N 052 146 00) 
≤ 1400 (N 052 146 01) 
5 
Characteristics requirements 
See table 4. 
Table 4 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
Requirement 
1 
Evaporation loss according to DIN 51 581 
1.1 
for 100°C 
% 
≤ 1.5 
1.2 
for 150°C 
% 
≤ 7.0 
2 
Flash point 
 
acc. to DIN EN ISO 2592 
°C 
≥ 150 
3 
Oil purity 
Microscopic particle count 
acc. to DIN ISO 4407 
Purity class acc. to ISO 4406 
 
16 / 12 
4 
Corrosivity per PV 1425 


Page 5 
TL 521 46: 2002-11 
 
No. 
Property 
Unit 
Requirement 
4.1 
Steel 
 
 
 
Grade 
 
max. 1 
4.2 
Copper 
 
 
 
Grade 
 
max. 1 
 
Weight loss 
mg/cm² 
≤ 2.0 
4.3 
Sludge formation of the oil-water 
mixture 
 
Not permissible 
5 
Oxidation stability according to CEC-L-48-A-00 
(96 h; 5 l air/h; 140°C; 100 ml) 
 
After testing is completed, the following requirements must be met: 
5.1 
Blotter-spot test / drippage area 
 
no solid or adhesive residues 
5.2 
∆ Viscosity 
acc. to DIN 51 562-1 
at 100°C 
% 
≤ 5 
5.3 
∆ TAN 
acc. to ASTM D 664 
mgKOH/g to be specified 
6 
Foaming behavior according to ASTM D 892 
6.1 
New oil 
 
 
 
at 25°C / after 10 s 
ml 
≤ 50 / 0 
 
at 95°C / after 20 s 
ml 
≤ 100 / 0 
6.2 
After aging according to CEC-L-48-A-00 
(24 h / 140°C) 
 
at 25°C / after 10 s 
ml 
≤ 50 / 0 
 
at 95°C / after 20 s 
ml 
≤ 100 / 0 
7 
Air release property according to DIN 51 381 
at 50°C 
 
After aging according to CEC-L-48-A-00 
(24 h / 140°C) 
 
Air-in-oil dispersion (requirements based on DIN 51 381) 
 
After 0 min (extrapolated) 
Vol. % 
≤ 2.5 
 
after 1 min 
Vol. % 
≤ 2.0 
 
after 2 min 
Vol. % 
≤ 1.0 
 
after 3 min 
Vol. % 
≤ 0.2 
8 
Shear stability (20 h) 
per CEC-L-45-A-99 
8.1 
Viscosity after shearing 
acc. to DIN 51 562-1 
mm2/s 
≥ 5.0 
8.2 
Shear loss 
% 
≤ 25 
6 
Functional requirements 
6.1 
Elastomer compatibility (behavior as compared with reference elastomers) 
Requirements and tests according to VW 2.8.1-P. 


Page 6 
TL 521 46: 2002-11 
 
6.2 
Plastic compatibility 
Requirements and tests according to TL 534 or TL 520 62 (expansion tank made of PA 6 or 
PA 6.6). 
6.3 
Anti-wear behavior (SRV test) see section 7.2 
─ 
Wear volumes 
≤ 0.35 mm³ 
─ 
Permanent Hertzian stress 
≥ 75% 
─ 
Coefficient of friction 
Static coefficient of friction (or µ max.) 
min. 
to be specified 
max. 
to be specified 
Ø 
≤ 0.120 mm 
Running 
quiet, no seizing 
─ 
Dynamic coefficient of friction 
at a sliding speed of 120 mm/s 
≤ 0.085 
6.4 
Pumpability at -45°C 
Testing according to PV 1460. 
─ 
Oil under test 
≥ 90% of reference oil 
─ 
Reference oil (section 7.5) 
to be specified 
7 
Notes on testing, explanations 
The requirement "according to sample" is a quality specification of a released sample. 
The requirement "to be specified" is for the general information of the sample presented, from 
which a concrete requirement can be derived later. 
7.1 
Standard reference elastomers 
─ 
NBR 28 
Bayer AG 
─ 
ACM 7503 
Elring Dichtungswerke GmbH 
─ 
FKM AK6 
─ 
Vamac NS 87 Nb/58 
─ 
Hypalon 18A/181 
Parker-Prädifa GmbH 
─ 
Therban N73 
 
7.2 
SRV standard wear test 
See table 5. 
Table 5 
1 
Test procedure 
 
Test apparatus 
Translatory oscillation tester per  
DIN 51 834-1 
 
Type of contact 
Point, oscillating 
 
Oscillating specimen 
Ball - ∅ 10 mm, material 100 Cr 6 


Page 7 
TL 521 46: 2002-11 
 
 
Static specimen 
Specimen 100 Cr 6 
SRV order no. 291.150.05 
 
Load, run-in 5 min 
100 N 
 
Load, continuation 115 min 
200 N 
 
Oscillation distance 
1,000 µm 
 
Frequency 
50 Hz 
 
Temperature 
90°C 
2 
The volume of wear is calculated from the wear pattern on the ball using the usual 
geometric methods. 
 
To calculate the permanent Hertzian stress, the 200 N load on the surface is referred to 
the wear pattern (mm²) and expressed as a % of Pmax (2,741 N/mm²). 
7.3 
Reference oil 
“Pentosin CHF 11 S” 
Deutsche Pentosin GmbH 
8 
Referenced standards 
TL 534 
Polyamide 6 – Finished Parts; Material Requirements 
TL 520 62 
PA 6.6, Glass Fiber Reinforced, for Finished Parts, Material Requirements 
PV 1425 
Lubricating Oils; Testing the Corrosivity 
PV 1448 
Lubricants; PAH Determination 
PV 1460 
Lubricating Oils; Test of Pumpability at Low Temperatures (Haldex Pump 
Test) 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts - General, Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 505 50 
Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons; Pollutant Limitations 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard For Vehicles, Vehicle Parts, Materials, Fuels; 
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
VW 2.8.1 
Rubber; Material Requirements and Testing 
DIN 51 381 
Testing Lubricating Oils, Regulator Oils and Hydraulic Fluids; Determining 
the Air Release Property 
DIN 51 451 
Testing Mineral Oil Products and Related Products; Infrared Spectrometric 
Analysis, General Working Basics 
DIN 51 562-1 
Viscosimetry, 
Measurement 
of 
the 
Kinematic 
Viscosity 
with 
the 
"Ubbelohde"-Type Viscosimeter 
DIN 51 581 
Lubricant Testing; Determining the Evaporation Loss of Lubricating Oils 
(Per Noack) 
DIN 51 757 
Testing of Mineral Oils and Related Substances; Determination of Density 
DIN 51 777-1 
Testing Mineral Oil Hydrocarbons and Solvents; Determining the Water 
Content according to Karl-Fischer, Direct Method 
DIN 51 834-1 
Lubricant Testing; Tribological Tests in the Translatory Oscillation Tester; 
Part 1: General Working Basics 
DIN EN 10 204 
Metallic Products; Types of Testing Certificates 
DIN EN ISO 2592 
Petroleum Products; Determination of Flash and Fire Points; Cleveland 
Open Cup Method 


Page 8 
TL 521 46: 2002-11 
 
DIN ISO 2909 
Mineral Oil Products; Calculating the Viscosity Index from the Kinematic 
Viscosity 
DIN ISO 3016 
Mineral Oil Products; Determining the Pour Point 
ISO 4406 
Hydraulic Power Fluid; Fluids; Method for Coding Level of Contamination by 
Solid Particles 
ISO 4407 
Hydraulic Power Fluid; Fluid Contamination; Determination of Particulate 
Contamination by the Counting Method using a Microscope 
ASTM D 664 
Standard Test Method for Acid Number of Petroleum Products by 
Potentiometric Titration 
ASTM D 892 
Standard Test Method for Foaming Characteristics of Lubricating Oils 
ASTM D 6045 
Standard Test Method for Color of Petroleum Products by the Automatic 
Tristimulus Method 
CEC L-45-A-99 
Viscosity Shear Stability Of Transmission Lubricants (Taper Roller Bearing 
Rig) 
CEC L-48-A-00 
Oxidation Stability of Lubricating Oils used in Automotive Transmissions by 
Artificial Aging (Laboratory Test) 


Page 9 
TL 521 46: 2002-11 
 
Annex A 
(informative) 
A.1 
Release cycle 
Designation: ............................................................................................................................ 
Origin: 
............................................................................................................................ 
Ident. data: 
Additive batch:..................................................................................................... 
 
Manufacturing batch:........................................................................................... 
 
Delivery slip no.:.................................................................................................. 
 
Quantity [t]:.......................................................................................................... 
 
Examinations acc. to TL 521 46 
 
 
Result 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory tests according to table 3, 
no. 1 / no. 2 / no. 4 to 7 
no. 8 
OK (  ) 
tol. (  ) 
not OK (  ) see report 
of.................. 
Evaporation loss acc. to  
table 4, no. 1 
OK (  ) 
tol. (  ) 
not OK (  ) see report 
of.................. 
Oil purity acc. to  
table 4, no. 3 
OK (  ) 
tol. (  ) 
not OK (  ) see report 
of.................. 
Oxidation stability acc. to  
table 4, no. 5 
OK (  ) 
tol. (  ) 
not OK (  ) see report 
of.................. 
Foaming behavior acc. to  
table 4, no. 6 
OK (  ) 
tol. (  ) 
not OK (  ) see report 
of.................. 
Air release property acc. to  
table 4, no. 7 
OK (  ) 
tol. (  ) 
not OK (  ) see report 
of.................. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OK: 
Result lies within the limit values 
Release is recommended 
Tol.: 
Result with low, still tolerable 
limit value deviations 
 
Release is recommended 
not OK.: 
Result lies outside the limit values 
Release is not recommended 
 
Release 
yes (  ) 
no (  ) 
 
 
 
Date 
Signature, central hydraulic system fluid supplier 
 
 
