# TL52637.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 55 35 1 
April 2004 
Pillar Trim Panel ASSY 
and Scuff Plate 
Material Requirements 
TL 
526 37 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
pillar trim panel, scuff plate, pillar trim panel ASSY 
D
 
Page 1 of 5 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-31 
Frau Radon 
Tel: -31886 
Frau Krenz Tel: +49-5361-9-48869 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
1 
Scope 
This Technical Supply Specification (TL standard) specifies the material requirements for pillar trim 
panels and scuff plates ready for installation. 
2 
Designation 
Pillar trim panel and scuff plates according to TL 526 37 
3 
Requirement 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 011 55. 
Emission behavior according to VW 501 80 and guideline for use no. 3211 issued by Audi 
laboratory in Ingolstadt, Germany. 
Resistance to open air weathering according to VW 501 85. 
Colorimetric evaluation according to VW 501 90. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
Burning behavior according to TL 1010. 
A minimum of three vehicle sets of pillar trim panels per trim color are required for complete testing. 
Quantities deviating from this shall be agreed upon by the test laboratories. 
The design of the components in the head or knee impact area must meet the requirement 
“no splintering permissible in the event of a crash”. 
Pillar trim panels suitable for curtain airbags in the temperature range from -35 °C to +90 °C. 
3.2 
Appearance 
Flaws such as voids or cracks shall not impair function, assembly or service life of the finished 
parts. 
The surface appearance shall be free of visible defects. Flaws in appearance, such as detached 
decorative material, mismatched or distorted decorative material, shiny areas and sink marks, 
adhesive bleed-through (with laminated pillar trim panels), visible plastic on fabric surface 
(with back-molded pillar trim panels) or wrinkling are not permissible. 
The edges shall be properly finished without fraying, etc. (cutting methods that seal the edges or 
fold-overs may be used). A polyamide-based hot-melt adhesive shall be used for bonded 
fold-overs. 
After pressure loading the trims must not exhibit any permanent deformation (pressure marks). 
In the case of textile trims, the design of the fabric must be such that individual threads cannot be 
pulled out during use. 
After aging (open-air weathering, environmental aging, aging test) the trims must not exhibit any 
visual changes outside the released tolerance. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 526 37: 2004-04 
D 
3.3 
Physiological compatibility 
The materials used for the trim panel ASSY shall be physiologically safe and shall, for example, not 
induce skin irritation or objectionable odors (e.g., formaldehyde, ammonia, styrene or phenol). 
Emitting constituents shall be toxicologically safe. 
3.4 
Material composition 
According to drawing. 
3.4.1 
Substrate 
The respective material TL standards apply (e.g., HCPP according to TL 524 52). 
3.4.2 
Trims with nonwoven or foamed plastic 
The respective material TL standards apply. 
3.5 
Structure 
The layer structure shall be precisely described in the drawing. The compression method used for 
the respective nonwoven shall be specified in the drawing (e.g., spunlace nonwoven or needle-
punched nonwoven). 
3.5.1 
Substrate 
According to drawing, e.g. polypropylene with increased crystallization according to TL 524 52. 
3.5.2 
Face fabric 
According to drawing, e.g., polyester fabric, 100% PET according to TL 522 54-I, but without foam 
layer. 
Weight per unit area of face fabric: 140 g/m2 
Weight per unit area of total structure (face fabric + laminated nonwoven): 300 g/m2 
Thread size: dtex 76 and dtex 33 according to drawing 
Other trims, e.g., leather, Alcantara or polyvinyl, are also possible. 
3.5.3 
Nonwoven 
According to drawing, e.g., PET/PP mixed nonwoven 50 : 50 
Nonwoven variants: 
─ 
Pure nonwovens 
e.g., PET nonwoven or PP nonwoven 
─ 
Mixed nonwovens 
e.g., polyester/PP nonwoven 
─ 
Mixed nonwovens with protective layer e.g., polyester/PP nonwoven with viscose portion 


Page 3 
TL 526 37: 2004-04 
D 
3.5.4 
Adhesive 
According to drawing, e.g., 100% polyester (PET) (20 ± 2) g/m2 
Adhesive variants: 
─ 
Polyamide-based hot-melt adhesive (thermoplastic adhesive)  
─ 
PUR-based two-component adhesive 
3.6 
Identification according to VDA 260 
According to drawing. 
E.g., >PET, PET+ PP, PP/PE< 
4 
Component requirements 
4.1 
Color and grain 
The color is compared colorimetrically to the released original sample (requires an original sample 
or working sample for the pillar). 
Color constancy according to VW 501 90. 
The grain or the surface structure is compared visually to the released sample. 
4.2 
Open-air weathering 
Basic quality criterion is open-air weathering for one year without complaint. This test is performed 
exclusively by the VW Group. 
4.3 
Environmental cycle test 
20 cycles according to PV 2005. Testing shall be performed in as-installed position if possible. 
There shall be no changes of shape or surface and no structural changes of the surface. 
In the case of back-molded or laminated components, partial separation of decorative material or 
blistering is not permitted. 
4.4 
Elevated-temperature behavior 
Testing for 24 h at +100 °C or 48 h at +110 °C (applies only to ABS/PC as substrate) according to 
DIN 53497. Testing shall be performed in as-installed position if possible. 
There shall be no changes of shape or surface and no structural changes of the surface. 
In the case of back-molded or laminated components, partial separation of decorative material or 
blistering is not permitted. 
4.5 
Low-temperature behavior 
Finished parts are aged for (22 ± 2) h at (-40 ± 2) °C. The finished parts shall function properly at 
low temperatures. Cracks or similar damage are not permissible. 


Page 4 
TL 526 37: 2004-04 
D 
4.6 
Ball drop test according to Test Specification PV 3905 
Testing according to PV 3905. 
Ball drop height: 
─ 
For back-molded or laminated components: 
 
(45 ± 2) cm 
─ 
For injected-molded or deep-drawn components: 
(23 ± 0.5) cm 
Requirement: No cracks, no fractures permitted. 
4.7 
Aging at elevated temperature 
400 h at +150 °C (applies only to polypropylene as substrate). 
Continuous aging in mechanically circulated air at (150 – 2) °C. The test is preferably performed on 
complete finished parts. It is permissible to perform it on sections of finished parts. The specimen 
has become brittle when it exhibits signs of disintegration typical for, e.g., decomposed PP at any 
point (material starts to crumble). 
There shall be no structural changes of the substrate surface within the 400 h. 
4.8 
Lightfastness 
4.8.1 
Areas exposed to direct sun radiation 
Testing for five periods according to PV 1303. 
Change of surface: max. gray-scale level ≥ 4 according to DIN EN 20105-A02. 
4.8.2 
Areas exposed to indirect sun radiation 
Testing for three periods according to PV 1303. 
Change of surface: max. gray-scale level ≥ 4 according to DIN EN 20105-A02. 
4.9 
Adhesion of decorative layer 
The following applies in unused condition as well as after aging (see test matrix):  
Adhesion between nonwoven/foam and substrate as well as between nonwoven/foam and face 
fabric must be uniformly good in all areas.  
When the face fabric of the nonwoven/foam is removed from the substrate, residual portions of 
foam must be on the face fabric and on the substrate (= cohesive fracture in the nonwoven/foam). 
Table 1 
No. 
Peel force based on 3 cm specimen width 
Adhesion of decorative layer acc. to PV 2034 
Unit 
Requirement 
1 
As-received condition 
2 
After aging at elevated temperature 
24 h at +100 °C 
3 
After environmental aging 
48 h at +55 °C (mechanically circulated air) and 
95% rel. humidity 
4 
After low-temperature aging 
24 h at -40 °C 
N/3 cm 
≥ 25 


Page 5 
TL 526 37: 2004-04 
D 
In this test, the specimen shall not split at values below the specified minimum values unless such 
splitting occurs outside the adhesive bond (for example in the nonwoven). 
4.10 
Scratch resistance 
Testing according to PV 3952 (if required according to the drawing). 
Requirement 
Difference in brightness delta L (5 N load) 
≤ 0.5 
Difference in brightness delta L (10 N load) 
≤ 1.5 
5 
Referenced standards*) 
TL 1010 
Materials for Vehicle Interiors; Flammability, Material Requirements 
PV 1303 
Non-Metallic 
Materials; 
Exposure 
Test 
of 
Passenger 
Compartment 
Components 
PV 2005 
Vehicle Parts; Testing of Resistance to Environmental Cycle Test 
PV 2034 
Nonmetallic Flat Items; Roller Peel Test 
PV 3905 
Organic Materials; Ball Drop Test 
PV 3952 
Plastic Interior Components; Testing of Scratch Resistance 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 501 80 
Components in Passenger Compartment; Emission Behavior 
VW 501 85 
Vehicle Components; Resistance to Open Air Weathering 
VW 501 90 
Components of the Vehicle Interior Trim; Colorimetric Evaluation 
VW 911 01 
Vehicle Environmental Standard; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids; 
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN 53497 
Testing of Plastics; Hot Storage Test on Mouldings Made of Thermoplastic 
Moulding Materials without External Mechanical Stressing 
DIN EN 20105-A02 Textiles – Tests for Colour Fastness – Part A02: Grey Scale for Assessing 
Change in Colour 
VDA 260 
Bauteile von Kraftfahrzeugen; Kennzeichnung der Werkstoffe (Automotive 
Components; Identification of Materials – only available in German) 
Guideline for use no. 3211, Requirements for the Emission Behavior acc. to VW 501 80 for 
Materials and Components in the Passenger Compartment, in the Trunk and in the Air Ducts Used 
in Vehicles by Audi AG (only available in German). 
                                                
*) In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
