# TL52678.pdf

NR for Wiper Blades
Material Requirements
2 Types: A, B
Preface
Technical Supply Specification TL 52678 Type A replaces TL 659.
Previous issues
TL 659: 1970-11, 1993-01, 1997-05, 2005-02, 2008-09; TL 52678: 2008-11
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to TL 52678: 2008-11:
–
Section 3.3 "Types" revised
–
Table 1: No. 2 requirements changed, No. 9 "lightfastness" removed
Scope
This Technical Supply Specification defines the material requirements for NR (natural rubber) elas‐
tomer for wiper blades of the wiper system.
Description
Description example for an NR elastomer with a preferred hardness of 60 Shore A:
NR elastomer according to TL 52678-A
Requirements
General requirements
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 01155.
1  
2  
3  
3.1  
Group Standard
TL 52678
Issue 2009-05
Class. No.:
55169
Descriptors:
NR, wiper blade, windshield washer system, wiper system, elastomer
Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
Numerical notation acc. to ISO practice.
Page 1 of 7
Technical responsibility
Standards department
GQL-LP/4
Dr. Lutz Wohlfarth
Tel.: +49-5361-9-26049
GQL-LP
Dr. Roger Hillert
EKTC/4 Ute Hager-Süß
EKTC
Tel.: +49-5361-9-49035
Manfred Terlinden
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform "www.vwgroupsupply.com".
© VOLKSWAGEN AG
VWNORM-2007-10f
QUELLE: NOLIS


Resistance to open-air weathering according to VW 50185.
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 91101.
For a complete examination, 20 finished parts and 1 test sheet each in DIN A4 format, 6 mm thick,
are required.
Quality
Proper surface and clean wiping edges. The following are not permitted: nodes, pores, inclusions,
cracks, waviness, and other types of damage.
Types
–
TL 52678-A
NR wiper blade without bars, preferred hardness 60 Shore A
–
TL 52678-B
NR wiper blade with bars, preferred hardness 57 Shore A
Marking according to VDA 260
> NR <
Evaluation of measurement results
The required numerical values apply to each individual measurement.
Material
NR elastomer
Surface
Graphitic.
Color
Black.
Required properties
See Table 1.
NOTE 1 Only the properties defined in No. 2.1 and 7 of Table 1 are determined on the test sheet. All
other determinations are performed on the finished part or on specimens from the finished part.
Table 1
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
 
TL 52678-A
TL 52678-B
1
Density acc. to
DIN EN ISO 1183-1 and
VW 2.8.1
g/cm3
Acc. to sample
2
Hardness
3.2  
3.3  
3.4  
3.5  
3.6  
3.7  
3.8  
4  
Page 2
TL 52678: 2009-05


No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
 
TL 52678-A
TL 52678-B
2.1
Sheet material acc. to DIN 53505
2.1.1
As-received condition
Shore A
Preferred hardness:
60 ± 5 or deviating hard‐
ness acc. to drawing note
Preferred hardness:
57 ± 5 or deviating hard‐
ness acc. to drawing
note
2.1.2
After aging at elevated
temperature
72 h at +90 °C,
see Section 5.1
Shore A
0 to + 3 compared to as-received condition
2.2
Finished part, in the center of the area of the lip in the cross-section (specimen thickness
= 2 ± 0,5 mm) acc. to DIN ISO 48
2.2.1
As-received condition
IRHD
Preferred hardness:
57 ± 4 or deviating hard‐
ness acc. to drawing note
Preferred hardness: 54 -
3/+ 4
(51 to 58 IRHD)
2.2.2
After aging at elevated
temperature
72 h at +90 °C,
see Section 5.1
IRHD
0 to + 3 compared to as-received condition
3
Tensile strength acc. to DIN 53504 and Section 5.2
3.1
As-received condition
N/mm2
> 20
3.2
After aging at elevated
temperature
72 h at +90 °C,
see Section 5.1
N/mm2
4
Elongation at tear acc. to DIN 53504 and Section 5.2
4.1
As-received condition
%
250 to 520
300 to 600
4.2
After aging at elevated
temperature
72 h at +90 °C,
see Section 5.1
%
5
Stress value acc. to
DIN 53504
at 100% elongation
in as-received condition
N/mm2
> 2,8
> 2,0
6
Weight change after ag‐
ing in methylated spirit/
water mixture
22 h at RT,
see Section 5.3
%
0 to + 2
7
Rebound resilience acc.
to DIN 53512
(measured on test sheet)
in as-received condition
%
> 50
Page 3
TL 52678: 2009-05


No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
 
TL 52678-A
TL 52678-B
8
Ozone resistance acc. to
VW 2.8.1 and Section 5.4
 
Free of cracks
9
Leaching after exposure to
9.1
Methylated spirit/water
mixture, see Section 5.5
 
No discoloration
9.2
Glass cleaner/water mix‐
ture, see Section 5.6
 
10
Tension set acc. to
DIN ISO 2285 with con‐
stant deformation after
aging at elevated temper‐
ature at +90 °C for 72 h,
see Section 5.7
 
< 40
11
Behavior in cold air acc.
to VW 2.8.1
22 h at -40 °C
 
Elastic
12
Total vulcanization densi‐
ty (chemical and physi‐
cal), see Section 5.8
 
Acc. to sample
13
Extractable constituents
acc. to Test Specification
PV 3939 and Section 5.9
 
Only required if
"extractable constituents < …%" is prescribed in the
drawing.
14
Low-temperature flexibili‐
ty acc. to PV 3945 and
Section 5.10
 
Only required if
"glass transition temperature Tg = …°C" is pre‐
scribed in the drawing.
Notes on testing
Aging at elevated temperature
The specimens are aged for 72 h at +90 °C in a forced ventilation oven according to DIN 53508.
Measurements 15 min after removal.
Tensile strength, elongation at tear
Removal of S3A or S3 standard specimens.
Weight change
Finished part sections 80 mm in length are aged for 22 h at room temperature in 250 ml of a methylated
spirit/water mixture (see Section 5.5).
5  
5.1  
5.2  
5.3  
Page 4
TL 52678: 2009-05


Ozone resistance
Testing according to VW 2.8.1, deviating ozone concentration of 0,5 ppm. Test frame according to
PV 3305. The specimens are separated on the swing bar and the ends wrapped with textile adhesive
tape for better clamping.
Finished part sections 15 cm in length are secured in the clamping device of the test frame and
stretched until the distance between the markings, which are spaced 100 mm apart, is extended by
15%.
Prior to aging in the ozone climate chamber, the test frame is acclimatized along with the clamped
finished part sections at room temperature for 46 h.
Leaching – methylated spirit/water mixture
A finished part section (5 g) is divided into 3 parts of equal length and aged for 1 h at room temperature
in 50 ml (150-ml beaker, tall) of a methylated spirit/water mixture of 50 volume percent denatured
methylated spirit and 50 volume percent de-ionized water.
After aging is finished and the elastomer parts are removed, light-colored painted sheets according
to VW 2.8.1 are immersed vertically in the fluid for 1 h at room temperature. After expiration of the
test duration, the parts are exposed under an unfiltered mercury vapor lamp for 1 h. The painted sheet
discoloration is evaluated before and after the light exposure.
Leaching – glass cleaner/water mixture
A finished part section (5 g) is divided into 3 parts of equal length and aged for 1 h at room temperature
in 50 ml (150-ml beaker, tall) of a glass cleaner/water mixture of 50 volume percent glass cleaning
fluid according to TL 52164 and 50 volume percent de-ionized water.
After aging is finished and the elastomer parts are removed, light-colored painted panels according
to VW 2.8.1 are immersed vertically in the fluid for 1 h at room temperature. After expiration of the
test duration, the parts are exposed under an unfiltered mercury vapor lamp for 1 h. The painted sheet
discoloration is evaluated before and after the light exposure.
Tension set
Test frame according to PV 3305. The specimens are separated on the swing bar and the ends
wrapped with textile adhesive tape for better clamping.
Finished part sections 100 mm in length are secured in the clamping device of the test frame and
stretched until the distance between the markings, which are spaced 50 mm apart, is extended by
50%.
15 min after mounting, the test frames with the elastomer parts must be aged for 72 h at +90 °C in a
natural convection oven according to DIN 53508. The end of the test period is followed by a 45 min
acclimatization period at room temperature.
The measurements are performed 30 min after the load is removed.
Evaluation:
Tension set RzV in % with constant deformation:
RzV = 
L2 - L0
L1 - L0 × 100
(1)
5.4  
5.5  
5.6  
5.7  
Page 5
TL 52678: 2009-05


Legend:
L0 = original measured length of specimen sections
L1 = measured length of specimen sections in deformed condition
L2 = measured length of specimen sections after removal of load at specified time
Total vulcanization density
The total vulcanization density (chemical and physical) is determined by means of magnetic reso‐
nance vulcanization density spectrometry by the Volkswagen Group laboratory.
The following parameters must be indicated:
–
Total vulcanization density (chemical
and physical):
XLD (mol × cm3)
–
Spin-lattice relaxation time:
T2 (ms)
Extractable constituents
The extractable constituents are determined using an extraction apparatus according to PV 3939
Section 3.1.
Low-temperature flexibility
The glass transition temperature Tg is determined using dynamic mechanical analysis according to
PV 3945.
Referenced documents
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary for application.
In this Section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used.
PV 3305
Vulcanized Rubber Products; Test of Ozone Resistance and Permanent
Deformation
PV 3939
Tubing in Windshield Washer Systems; Extractable Ingredients
PV 3945
Elastomers and Thermoplastic Elastomers; Determining the Low-Temper‐
ature Flexibility with DMA
TL 52164
Windshield Washer Fluid; Material Requirements
VW 01155
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 2.8.1
Elastomers; Material Requirements and Testing
VW 50185
Vehicle Components; Resistance to Open Air Weathering
VW 91101
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
DIN 53504
Testing of rubber; determination of tensile strength at break, tensile stress
at yield, elongation at break and stress values in a tensile test
DIN 53505
Testing of rubber - Shore A and Shore D hardness test
DIN 53508
Testing of rubber - Accelerated ageing
5.8  
5.9  
5.10  
6  
Page 6
TL 52678: 2009-05


DIN 53512
Testing of rubber - Determination of rebound resilience (Schob pendulum)
DIN EN ISO 1183-1
Plastics - Methods for determining the density of non-cellular plastics - Part
1: Immersion method, liquid pyknometer method and titration method
DIN ISO 2285
Rubber, vulcanized or thermoplastic - Determination of tension set under
constant elongation, and of tension set, elongation and creep under con‐
stant tensile load
DIN ISO 48
Rubber, vulcanized or thermoplastic - Determination of hardness (hard‐
ness between 10 IRHD and 100 IRHD)
VDA 260
Components of motor vehicles; marking of material
Page 7
TL 52678: 2009-05
