# TL52451_Mai.2203_Painting of Decorative Metallic Add-on Parts on the Exterior.en.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 24 2 
May 2003 
Painting of Decorative Metallic Add-On 
Parts on the Exterior 
Requirements 
TL 
524 51 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
paint, painting, paintwork, surface protection, multicoat paint, metal part, 
decorative,  top coat, wiper arm, roof rail, pillar trim 
 
 
Page 1 of 8 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-31 Frau Hoffmann  Tel: -76941 
K-QS-32 
Sender Tel: -25803 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung einer Normenabteilung des Volkswagen Konzerns nicht gestattet. 
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung. 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to TL 524 51: 1998-07: 
─ 
Standard completely revised 
Previous issues 
1996-06; 1998-07 
1 
Scope 
This standard applies to paintwork on exterior add-on parts with metallic substrate that are in the 
visible area and thus must fulfil predominantly decorative and functional requirements, e.g. roof 
rails, wiper arms, pillar trim. 
2 
Designation 
Paintwork according to TL 524 51, with an additional indication of the surface protection according 
to VW 137 50, if required. 
Example 1: 
Paintwork according to TL 524 51 
 
Structure according to Ofl-x630 (cathodic dip paint) + powder top coat 
Example 2: 
Paintwork according to TL 524 51 
 
Structure according to Ofl-x632 (Zn, cathodic dip paint) + top coat 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
A minimum of 10 finished parts are required for complete testing. 
The supplier shall enclose the details as per Appendix A.1, along with the first-sample or the 
development sample test report with all the parts to be tested. 
Sub-areas to which the following requirements do not apply shall be marked in the drawing, and 
the deviating requirements shall be specified. 
No damage to the coating must occur during proper assembly. 
3.2 
Appearance 
The parts shall exhibit a uniform appearance over their entire surface and conform to the drawing 
requirements, the color standard, as well as the visual properties according to table 3. Pores, 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 524 51: 2003-05 
 
cracks and other flaws that adversely affect the specified appearance are not permissible. 
Deviations from this are stipulated in the drawing. 
Degree of glossiness, color and structure will be documented in the first-sample or the 
development sample test report. 
3.3 
Open-air weathering 
All painted components are tested according to VW 501 85 (2 years in moist heat and 2 years in 
dry heat). The supplier is obligated to remove the cause for complaints occurring during this test 
and to improve the paint system. 
3.4 
Paint process 
The paint process shall be coordinated between paint shop and paint manufacturer. Both parties 
will confirm the first-sample test report, meaning that both are responsible for fulfilling the specified 
requirements. Responsibilities are distributed as follows: 
─ 
The paint manufacturer provides information on the fulfillment of requirements specified in TL 
standards; he will make processing guidelines available and provide support regarding the 
applied paint method. 
─ 
The paint shop provides information on the substrate and pretreatment steps, checks the 
requirements at the earliest possible juncture, confirms compliance with the paint 
manufacturer’s processing guidelines and requests support regarding the applied paint 
method. 
3.5 
Total structure 
See table 1. 
Table 1 
No. 
Designation 
Requirement 
1 
Base material 
Acc. to drawing 
2 
Pretreatment/painting 
Acc. to VW 137 50, section 2 or 
acc. to drawing 
3 
Paint structure 
Acc. to VW 524 51, table 2 or 
acc. to drawing 
 
3.6 
Paint structure/coat thicknesses 
The coat thicknesses indicated in table 2 apply only if additional layers are used for requirements 
according to VW 137 50 or if there is no reference to a surface according to VW 137 50. The 
specified layer materials shall be adhered to in any event. 
The total paint coat thickness shall not exceed 110 µm in a pure liquid paint structure. 
In a structure containing powder paint, a total paint coat thickness of 150 µm may not be exceeded. 
Repainting is only possible when the same color is used. The total paint coat thickness in the event 
of repainting is limited to max. 160 µm for the pure liquid paint structure and 200 µm for the powder 
paint structure. The requirements of TL 524 51 shall also be fulfilled in the case of repainting 
according to a secure process. 
The paint structure must comprise either 
a primer coat (1) and a single-layer top coat (2) according to table 2, 


Page 3 
TL 524 51: 2003-05 
 
or 
a primer coat (1) and a double-layer top coat (3) according to table 2. 
In exceptional cases (e.g. powder top coat on pretreated aluminum substrates), a top coat structure 
only (according to table 2 (1) or (2)) can also be chosen; however, this must be expressly stipulated 
in the drawing. 
 
Table 2 – Coat thicknesses 
Coat 
Coat material 
Standard value 
for coat  
thickness [µm] 
a 
Cathodic-dip paint 
17 to 22 
b 
Heavy coat cathodic dip paint 
25 to 35 
c 
Liquid paint filler (binder base as desired) 
25 to 35 
1. Primer coat 
d 
Powder filler (binder based on epoxy resin or 
polyester resin) 
50 to 80 
a 
Powder top coat 
(polyester resin or acrylate resin base for matt 
paints, acrylate resin base for high-gloss paints) 
50 to 100 
2. 1-layer top coat 
b 
Top coat (liquid paint, binder basis polyester, 
polyacrylate, polyurethane) 
20 to 40 
Colorin
g coat 
a 
Base coat (liquid paint, binder: CAB, acrylate, 
melamine, polyester systems) 
10 to 20 
b 
Clear coat (liquid paint, binder: acrylate, 
polyester) 
30 to 50 
3. 2-layer top 
coat 
Clear 
coat 
c 
Powder clear coat (acrylate resin-based binder; 
when using powders with a polyester resin 
base, additional protection in the form of a 
further liquid clear coat layer is required) 
50 to 100 
 
3.7 
Technological requirements 
For requirements, see table 3. 
The parts must be one week old for the technological tests or they must be aged before the tests 
for 24 h at +60 °C. Aging and conditioning: 24 h in the DIN 50 014 – 23/50-2 standard climate. 
Deviations from this must be noted in the test report. 
Table 3 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1 
Visual properties 
1.1 
Reflectometer value 
acc. to DIN EN ISO 2813 
acc. to color template 
1.2 
Colorimetric evaluation 
acc. to VW 501 95 


Page 4 
TL 524 51: 2003-05 
 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1.3 
Structure 
(standard values for dark colors) 
"Wave-scan plus" measuring system 
Measurement according to the 
manufacturer’s specifications and section 
4.1 
horizontal surfaces: 
LW < 5 
SW 10 to 25 
 
vertical surfaces: 
LW < 13 
SW 10 to 30 
 
 
2 
Adhesion 
2.1 
Crosscut test acc. to DIN EN ISO 2409 
and section 4.2 
Crosscut characteristic value 0 to 1. 
2.2 
Resistance to stone impact 
acc. to test specification DIN 55996-1 and 
section 4.3 
Total structure (2 bar) 
≤ characteristic value 1.5 between the coats of paint with indication of the main 
separation plane; 
impact may reach the substrate in individual cases; however, chipping is not 
permissible 
2.3 
Steam jet test acc. to PV 1503A or PV 
1503B 
Conducted in consultation with the 
responsible department 
No stripping of coating 
3 
Corrosion resistance 
Zinc and zinc alloys, 
zinc-coated surfaces 
Other metallic substrates 
3.1 
Corrosion cycle test PV 1210 
with scribing acc. to DIN EN ISO 7253, 
section 8.5 and DIN EN ISO 4628-8 
after 10 cycles, rust creep Wb ≤ 1 mm 
but not > 2.5 mm on any point on the 
part, 
after 60 cycles, no blisters and no base 
metal corrosion 
after 30 cycles, rust creep Wb ≤ 
2.5 mm but not > 5 mm on any point 
on the part, 
after 60 cycles, no blisters and no 
base metal corrosion 
3.2 
Salt spray fog DIN 50 021-SS 
after 240 hours with scribing acc. to DIN EN 
ISO 7253, section 8.5 and DIN EN ISO 
4628-8 
Rust creep Wb ≤ 1 mm but not > 2.5 mm 
at any point on the part, 
no blisters and no base metal corrosion 
Rust creep Wb ≤ 2.5 mm but not 
> 5 mm at any point on the part, 
no blisters and no base metal 
corrosion 
3.3 
Moisture condensate constant climate 
DIN 50 017-KK 
after 240h and  
subsequent conditioning in the DIN 50 014 
– 23/50-2 standard climate 
- Blister grade m0g0 after 2 h (according to DIN 53 209) 
- No corrosion 
- The adhesion requirements (table 3, no. 2) must be fulfilled after 24 h 
- No visual changes after 24 h when compared with the initial condition 
4 
Resistance to temperature change 
4.1 
Aging at elevated temperature in 
mechanically circulated air 
after 240 h at (90 ± 2)°C and subsequent 
conditioning for 30 min in the  
DIN 50 014 – 23/50-2 standard climate 
The requirements according to section 3.2 and table 3, no. 2 must be fulfilled 
4.2 
Low-temperature aging 
after 24 h at –40 ± 3°C and 
subsequent conditioning for  
30 min in the DIN 50 014 – 23/50-2 
standard climate, 
the specimens detailed in table 3, no. 4.1 
are used 
The requirements according to section 3.2 and table 3, no. 2 must be fulfilled 
4.3 
Impact test using the specimens detailed in 
table 3, no. 4.2 at (–40 ± 3)°C, see section 
4.4 
No chipping or cracks in paint coating 
4.5 
Environmental cycle test according to 
PV 2005 A after 50 cycles and subsequent 
conditioning for 24 h in the DIN 50 014 – 
23/50-2 standard climate 
The requirements according to section 3.2 and table 3, nos. 1 and 2 must be 
fulfilled 
5 
Resistance to chemicals with respect to 
5.1 
Lyes according to PV 3.10.3 
No change in the paint surface 
for high-gloss coatings according to section 4.1 
Reduction in glossiness < 10%  (20° reflectometer value acc. to 
DIN EN ISO 2813) 


Page 5 
TL 524 51: 2003-05 
 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
5.2 
Acids according to PV 3.16.4 
No change in the paint surface 
for high-gloss coatings according to section 4.1 
Reduction in glossiness < 10%  (20° reflectometer value acc. to 
DIN EN ISO 2813) 
5.3 
Sealant and sealant remover according to 
section 4.5 
No change in the paint surface 
5.4 
Film sealant according to QP R 015 
Only swellings that are reversible (after 24 hours) are permitted; 
no adhesive residues after removing the sealant film 
5.5 
Industrial grade dust remover according to  
PV 3.10.5 
No change in the paint surface 
for high-gloss coatings according to section 4.1 
Reduction in glossiness < 10%  (20° reflectometer value acc. to 
DIN EN ISO 2813) 
5.6 
FAM test fuel according to VDA 621-412, 
test A 4.1.1 Y 
Swellings that are reversible after 24 h are permissible 
5.7 
Diesel fuel according to TL 788 and 
VDA 621-412, test A 4.2.1 X 
No change in the paint surface 
5.8 
Biodiesel (PME) according to DIN V 51 606 
and VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.2 X 
No change in the paint surface 
5.9 
Premium unleaded gasoline according to 
DIN EN 228 and VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.3 
Y 
No change in the paint surface 
5.10 
Engine oil according to TL 521 73 (Burmah 
Castrol Oil code A97075PBC) and 
VDA 621-412 test A 4.1.4 X 
No change in the paint surface 
5.11 
Hydraulic fluid according to TL 521 46 and 
VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.6 X 
No change in the paint surface 
5.12 
Automatic transmission fluid according to 
TL 521 62 and VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.7 X 
No change in the paint surface 
5.13 
Brake fluid according to TL 766 and 
VDA 621-412, test A 4.2.1 X 
Swellings that are reversible after 24 h are permissible 
5.14 
Coolant according to TL 774 and VDA 621-
412, test A 4.2.2 X 
No change in the paint surface 
5.15 
Commercial nitro-cellulose thinner 
(applies only to primed customer service 
parts) 
according to VDA 621-412, test A 4.1.1 Y 
No change in the paint surface 
6 
Light and weather resistance (short-term tests) 
6.1 
Weathering in humid heat according to 
PV 3930 (= Florida test), 1 year cycle, see 
section 4.6 
No cracks, 
no change in color or gloss, 
adhesion according to table 3; no. 2 must be complied with 
6.2 
Weathering in humid heat according to PV 
3930 (= Florida test), 2 year cycles, see 
section 4.6 
No cracks, 
no serious color shifts, 
adhesion according to table 3; no. 2 must be complied with 
6.3 
Weathering in dry heat  
according to PV 3929 (= Kalahari test),  
1 year cycle, see section 4.6 
No cracks, 
no change in color or gloss, 
adhesion according to table 3; no. 2 must be complied with 
6.4 
Weathering in dry heat  
according to PV 3929 (= Kalahari test),  
2 year cycles, see section 4.6 
No cracks, 
no serious color shifts, 
adhesion according to table 3; no. 2 must be complied with 
6.5 
Resistance of high-gloss top coats 
according to section 4.1 to UV radiation 
according to PV 1502, 2,000 h 
No visible cracking of the clear coat 
7 
Resistance to open air weathering 
7.1 
Weathering in humid heat (Florida),  
2 years, according to VDA 621-403, see 
section 4.6 
No visible change in color or gloss, 
adhesion according to table 3; no. 2 must be complied with, 
intermediate evaluation after every year cycle 
7.2 
Weathering in dry heat (Kalahari),  
2 years according to VDA 621-403,  
see section 4.6 
No visible change in color or gloss, 
adhesion according to table 3; no. 2 must be complied with, 
intermediate evaluation after every year cycle 


Page 6 
TL 524 51: 2003-05 
 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
8 
Washer resistance 
8.1 
Scratch resistance according to PV 3.3.3 
for high-gloss paintwork according to 
section 4.1 
≥ 70% relative residual gloss, 
≥ 75% relative residual gloss after reflow 
 
4 
Notes on testing 
4.1 
Definition of high-gloss paints 
Top coats with a reflectometer value according to DIN EN ISO 2813 of ≥ 70 at 60°. 
4.2 
Crosscut test 
With a Gt > 0-1 the result should be verified through further adhesion tests (e.g. stone impact test). 
Tesa 4657 shall be used as the adhesive tape. 
4.3 
Stone impact test 
Tesa 4657 shall be used as the adhesive tape. 
4.4 
Impact test 
Impact test according to DIN ISO 4532; however, with a specified testing force of 90 N on a rigid 
base plate. 
4.5 
Resistance to sealant/sealant remover 
One section is coated with sealant wax (that is released and used in standard production) by 
immersion. After aging the part for 24 h at room temperature, the wax layer shall be washed off by 
agitating the part in hot (80 °C) kerosene for 3 min. 
4.6 
Light and weather fastness 
High-gloss coatings must be cleaned before evaluation using a paint cleaner; matt coatings must 
be cleaned using an aqueous solution containing tensides. 
5 
Referenced standards 
PV 3.3.3 
Paints and Varnishes; Test of the Scratch Resistance of Clear Coats 
PV 3.10.3 
Paints and Varnishes; Test of Resistance to Caustic Solutions 
PV 3.10.5 
Paints and Varnishes; Test of Resistance to Industrial Grade Dust Remover 
PV 3.16.4 
Paints and Varnishes; Test of Resistance to Acids 
PV 1210 
Body and Add-On Parts; Corrosion Test 
PV 1502 
Clear Coat, Dual-Layer Metallic Paint Coatings; Test of Resistance to 
Cracking 
PV 1503 
Paint Coating of Non-Metallic Material; Steam Jet Test 
PV 3929 
Non-Metallic Materials; Weathering in Dry Heat 


Page 7 
TL 524 51: 2003-05 
 
PV 3930 
Non-Metallic Materials; Weathering in Humid Heat 
QP R 015 
Films, Self-Adhesive; Quality Requirements 
TL 766 
Brake Fluid; Material Requirements 
TL 774 
Ethylene Glycol-Based Coolant Additive; Material Requirements 
TL 788 
Diesel Fuel, Fuel Requirements 
TL 521 46 
Central Hydraulic Oil, Highly Temperature Resistant; Requirements 
TL 521 62 
Factory Fill - Service Life - ATF; Material Requirements 
TL 521 73 
Factory-Fill Engine Oil SAE 0W-30 with Fuel-Saving Properties for 
Extended Oil Change Intervals 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts, General; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 137 50 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Degrees of Protection, Codes, 
Requirements 
VW 501 85 
Vehicle Components; Resistance to Open Air Weathering 
VW 501 95 
Colorimetric Evaluation of Automobile Paint Coatings 
VW 911 01 
Vehicle Environmental Standard; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
VDA 621-403 
Tests for Coating Methods, Testing of Weather Fastness (Open-Air 
Weathering) 
VDA 621-412 
Tests for Coating Methods; Resistance to Chemicals of Automotive Paints 
DIN 50 014 
Climates and their Technical Application; Standard Atmospheres 
DIN 50 017 
Climates and their Technical Application; Condensated Water-Containing 
Test Climates 
DIN 50 021 
Spray Tests with Different Sodium Chloride Solutions 
DIN V 51 606 
Liquid Fuels; Diesel Fuel from Vegetable Oil Methyl Ester (PME), Minimum 
Requirements 
DIN 53 209 
Designation of Blister Grade of Paint Coatings 
DIN ISO 4532 
Vitreous and Porcelain Enamels, Determination of the Resistance of 
Enameled Articles to Impact; Pistol Test 
DIN EN 228 
Automotive Fuels; Unleaded Petrol; Requirements and Test Methods 
DIN EN ISO 2409 
Paints and Varnishes, Crosscut Test 
DIN EN ISO 2813 
Determination of the Reflectometer Value of Coatings 
DIN EN ISO 7253 
Paints and Varnishes; Determination of Resistance to Neutral Salt Spray 
(Fog) 
DIN EN ISO 4628-8 
Paints and Varnishes – Evaluation of Degradation of Coatings; Designation 
of Quantity and Size of Defects, and of Intensity of Uniform Changes in 
Appearance – Part 8: Evaluation of Corrosion around a Scribe 


Page 8 
TL 524 51: 2003-05 
 
Appendix A (informative) 
Supplier details on the specimen part 
a) Part designations and numbers 
b) Blank manufacturer 
c) 
Substrate material (manufacturer/ manufacturer and VDA designation) 
d) Cleaning and pretreatment methods 
e) Paint shop, painting location, painting plant 
f) 
Painting date 
Paint structure and painting procedure for all coats. See table A.1 for sample details for a primer 
coat. 
Table A.1 
Primer coat 
 
Paint manufacturer 
Dupont 
Manufacturer’s designation, possibly product 
data sheet 
R 50149.6 (not batch number!!) 
Water/solvent?; 1-component/2-component?, 
powder? 
Solvent; 1-component 
Binder base 
Epoxide 
Burn-in temperature 
80 °C 
Burn-in duration 
20 min 
Desired coat thickness 
25 µm 
Application method 
pneumatic, manual 
 
