# TL52650(2001-10-01,EN).pdf

Klass.-Nr. 55 56 1
October 2001
"Surface Corrected" Leather
Material Requirements
TL
526 50
Konzernnorm
Descriptors:
leather, natural leather, vehicle interior trim
D
page 1 of 12
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
K-QS-31
Wagner
Tel:-2 02 25
Wiesner
Tel: +49-5361-929064
Sobanski
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung einer Normenabteilung des Volkswagen Konzerns nicht gestattet.
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung.
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
VOLKSWAGEN AG
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 12.00
1 
Scope
This standard describes the requirements for "surface corrected" leather, which is used as
upholstery covering material for vehicle interior trims.
2 
Designation
Leather acc. to TL 526 50
3 
Definitions
"Surface corrected" leather acc. to technical supply specification is defined as follows:
High quality leather manufactured from raw material, which, due to the housing of animals in the
open, exhibits signs of damage due to barbed wire, thorny bushes, biting insects and parasites,
including rough neck areas and sites where manure is collected, does not lay claim to the top
quality of the natural skin surface.
Surface correction is achieved by grinding/polishing (400 to 600 grain) the grain as a step within
the leather manufacturing process as well as the application of a specified grain structure as a
further step of the process.
4 
Requirements
4.1 
General requirements
Approval of first supply and changes acc. to VW 011 55.
Every production-related change (e.g. in the process steps concerning tanning and/or finish and/or
a special surface treatment and/or shifting of the production facilities) requires the submission of a
new sample and release.
For a release, alongside pure leather sampling, approval by DESIGN, an in-vehicle test and
manufacturing feasibility tests with positive results are generally necessary.
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01.
Emission behavior acc. to VW 501 80
In the manufacturing of the leather, no aids containing PCP may be used.
1 skin is required for complete testing.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2
TL 526 50: 2001-10
D
4.2 
Appearance
The leather must be produced from raw material from animals belonging to the zoological family
“cattle”.
The fine-grained grinding/polishing treatment of the grain surface, for the purpose of “cosmetic
correction” of the leather, must be carried out in such a manner that the sealed collagen layer of
the grain is not completely removed. The pores must still be recognizable when the crust surface is
examined with a magnifying glass with 6x magnification. After the finishing and embossing of such
skins, signs of damage and irregular grain structure should still be invisible.
Tanning must be carried out using a chromium salt/salt of heavy metals free process.
The leather dye penetration must be perfect and the color must correspond to that of the leather
surface.
The finish (top coat with pigments) shall consist of hydro-paint systems on the basis of
polyurethane/polyacrylate. The resulting paint film of the leather shall be uniform, pliant, color fast
and exhibit good adhesion.
The back side must be short-fibered.
Leather intended for covers may not exhibit any obvious flaws.
The catalog of leather maximum deviation samples serves as an aid to evaluate the surface
characteristics.
4.3 
Conditioning
Prior to testing, the specimens must be conditioned for at least 48 h in the DIN 50 014 – 23/50-2
standard climate.
4.4 
Sampling
For physical tests:
acc. to DIN 53 302-1
For chemical tests:
acc. to DIN 53 302-2
The requirements for physico-mechanical properties in this standard must also be met in the entire
area A in the longitudinal and transverse direction of the skin (see Fig. 1).
4.5 
Material
For requirements, see Table 1.
Table 1 – Material requirements
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
1
Thickness
mm
1.2 ± 0.2
2
Weight per unit area acc. to
DIN 53 326
g/m2
700 to 900
3
Fat content acc. to DIN EN ISO 4048
%
7 to 12
4
PH value acc.
to DIN EN ISO 4045
differential number
≥ 3.5
≤ 0.7
5
Chromium content acc. to
DIN 53 309
%
≤ 0.10


Page 3
TL 526 50: 2001-10
D
4.6 
Physical Properties
For requirements, see Table 2.
Table 2 – Material requirements
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
1
Maximum tensile strength acc.
to DIN 53 328 specimen 2
N
Mean value of 5 specimens ≥ 120
Individual value ≥ 75
2
Elongation at break acc.
to DIN 53 328 specimen 2
%
35 to 60
3
Stitch tear resistance acc.
to DIN 53 331 Mandrel
N
≥ 60
4
Tear propagation strength
acc. to Notes on testing 5.1
N
≥ 150
5
Elongation and restoring behavior
acc. to Notes on testing 5.2
5.1
Static elongation
%
≥ 8
5.2
Permanent elongation
%
≤ 5
5.3
Tension set
%
≤ 45
6
Flexural rigidity acc. to PV 3903
6.1
Grain side, bottom
N
≤ 1.0
6.2
Grain side, top
N
≤ 1.6
7
Resistance to water
acc. to Notes on testing 5.3
Neither color changes nor marks on
the grain side
8
Perspiration resistance of the grain
side acc. to DIN EN ISO 105-E04,
Evaluation of the bleeding, alkaline
solution
Gray-scale level ≥ 4/5 acc.
to DIN EN 20 105-A03.
9
Behavior at permanent folding acc. to
DIN 53 351 and Notes on testing 5.4
9.1
Dry test after 100,000 folding cycles at
room temperature
No visible cracking
9.2
After hydrolysis test 70° C/70%
relative humidity: 336 h drying at room
temperature: 24 h 3,000 folding cycles
No visible cracking
9.3
After high-temperature light exposure
acc. to DIN 75 202, 3 periods 10,000
folding cycles
Cracking impermissible
(see verification concept – Notes on
testing 5.5)
10
Water vapor permeability acc.
to DIN 53 333
mg/cm² x h ≥ 1.0
11
Heat resistance Aging 100° C
mechanically circulated air/144 h
color change
Gray-scale level ≥ 4 acc.
to DIN EN 20 105-A02
12
Fastness to/aging in high-temperature
light acc. to DIN 75 202, 3 periods
Gray-scale level ≥ 4 acc.
to DIN EN 20 105-A02
Color shift not permissible!


Page 4
TL 526 50: 2001-10
D
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
13
Adhesive strength of the finish
acc. to PV 3354
13.1
As-received condition
13.1.1
Dry
N
≥ 4
13.1.2
Wet (1 h aging in water)
N
≥ 1.2
13.2
After 100,000 folding cycles
N
≥ 3.5
13.3
After high-temperature light exposure
acc. to DIN 75 202, 3 periods
N
≥ 3.5
14
Fastness to rubbing acc.
to DIN EN ISO 11 640 at 10%
material elongation and 10 N load
Gray-scale level acc.
to DIN EN 20 105-A03
14.1
Dry/2,000 strokes
Level
5
14.2
Moist/500 strokes
Level
≥ 4/5
14.3
Alkaline synthetic sweat (pH8)/
100 strokes
Level
≥ 4/5
14.4
Special boiling point spirit acc.
to DIN 51 631/  type 2 / 20 strokes
Level
≥ 4/5
14.5
Neutral soap (aqueous solution)/
100 strokes
Level
≥ 4/5
14.6
Ethanol/5 strokes
Level
≥ 4
15
Abrasion characteristics acc.
to DIN 53 109, n = 50/min, Friction
wheel CS 10, 10 N load, Number of
rotations: 500
No visible surface damage
(wrinkle formation is not evaluated)
16
Shrinking behavior acc. to Notes on
testing 5.6
16.1
Acc. to aging at elevated temperature
at 120° C mechanically circulated
air/168 h
%
≤ 5
16.2
Acc. to environmental cycle aging
acc. to Notes on testing 5.7
(Simulation of moist heat)
%
≤ 8
17
Dirt deflection
17.1
Oil deflection acc. to Appendix A.1
Grade
≥ 4
17.2
Oil deflection acc. to Appendix A.1,
after prior wear test acc. to No. 15
Grade
≥ 2
17.3
Water/alcohol drop test acc. to
Appendix A.2
Grade
≥ 4


Page 5
TL 526 50: 2001-10
D
No.
Property
Unit
Requirement
18
Cleaning behavior
The leather surface must enable
proper cleaning with cleaning agents
based on neutral soap using a cloth
moistened with water.
In cleaning with a cloth moistened
with petroleum ether no stains
should arise.
19
Burning behavior acc.
to US Regulation 571 302
Acc. to TL 1010 (if specified in
drawing and/or release)
20
Hot air resistance acc. to Notes on
testing 5.8
Color 
changes 
in 
leather 
not
permissible
5 
Notes on testing
5.1 
Tear propagation strength
The determination of the tear propagation strength is carried out with the dimensions
(80.0 x 20.0) mm based on DIN 53 507, however, with groove cut into the center of 5.0 mm in
length.
The test specimen is clamped with a free clamping length of 40 mm based on DIN 53 515 in such a
way that the transverse groove is exactly in the middle between the upper and lower clamps of the
tensile test machine.
The pre-force is 2 N, the transverse speed 100 mm/min.
The maximum load measured represents the "tear propagation strength".
5.2 
Elongation and restoring behavior
In determining the static and permanent elongation according to PV 3909, 5 parallel specimens are
taken crosswise and lengthwise out of the area A of each skin (see Figure 1) with a width of (50±1)
mm and a length of (190±10) mm.
The static load is applied at 50 N.
The distance between the measuring marks is (100 ± 0.5) mm.
The following formula is used to calculate the tension set:
%
 
100
 x 
elongation
 
Static
elongation
Permanent 
ZVR =
The "static elongation" is determined after 30 minutes loading, the "permanent elongation",
24 hours after unloading.


Page 6
TL 526 50: 2001-10
D
Figure 1 – Zone subdivision of the skin
5.3 
Resistance to water
1 ml desalinated water is dropped onto the back of the leather. Evaluation after drying at room
temperature (approx. 4 h).
5.4 
Permanent bending behavior
The formation of cracks is evaluated with a magnifying glass with 6x magnification.
5.5 
Verification concept
Verification concept if cracking arises after 3 periods of high-temperature light exposure and
subsequent 10,000 folding cycles (flexometer procedure):
The test specimen according to Figure 2, taken from leather material that has undergone 3 periods
of high-temperature light exposure, and 70 mm in length, is first clamped in the flexometer and
subjected to bend-testing. Subsequently, the crack formation is evaluated. Then, using tackers,
corresponding leather strips are secured to the 30 mm wide sections under consideration of the
direction of the skin. On the grain side of the sections, the leather strips overlap by 7 mm.
After separating the 45 mm wide sections, the middle part of the resulting new test specimen is
tested for fastness to rubbing according to Table 2, No. 14.3.
Requirement:Felt bleeding behavior: Gray-scale level ≥ 4
No wide-surface removal of the surface layer in the area rubbed


Page 7
TL 526 50: 2001-10
D
Figure 2
5.6 
Shrinking behavior
For specimen see Figure 3. Dimensions: 300 mm x 300 mm, measurement surface:
200 mm x 200 mm.
To determine linear shrinking, the edge length and both diagonals of the measurement surface is
measured before and after aging, edge/diagonal-specific shrinking is calculated using these
differences and the mean value is drawn up using the 6 single shrinking values.
Figure 3
5.7 
Environmental cycle aging (simulation of moist heat)
Aging is carried out, suspended, in the climate chamber.
Procedure:
4 h aging at (40 ±  2)° C and (90 ±  2)% relative humidity
2 h heating to 120° C
4 h aging at (120 ±  2)° C
2 h cooling to 40° C and 90% relative humidity
1 cycle (see Figure 4)
12 h
Altogether:
20 cycles = 240 hours
Information in mm


Page 8
TL 526 50: 2001-10
D
A = 152 g/cbm humidity abs.
S humidity regulation ON
D humidity regulation OFF
Figure 4
5.8 
Hot air resistance
Hot air is directed at a leather specimen (see Figure 5) for 15 to 20 s with a hot-air device
(hairdryer) at a distance of (100 to 120) mm from the nozzle opening to the leather surface. The
temperature at the leather surface should be 120° C to 140° C, the temperature of the hot air at the
nozzle opening of the adjustable hot air fan is approx. 280° C.
Test surface
100 x 100 mm
Specimen size
200 x 200 mm
Figure 5
Rel. humidity
Temperature


Page 9
TL 526 50: 2001-10
D
6 
Referenced standards
TL 1010
Materials for Vehicle Interiors, Burning Behavior; Material Requirements
VW 011 55
Vehicle Supply Parts - General, Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 501 80
Vehicle Interior Components, Emissions
VW 911 01
Vehicle Environmental Standard, Avoidance of Hazardous Substances
PV 3354
Leather; Adhesive Strength of Finish
PV 3903
Non-Metallic Planar Fabrics; Measurement of Flexural Rigidity
PV 3909
Non-Metallic Planar Fabrics, Measurement of the Static and Permanent
Elongation
DIN 50 014
Climates and Their Technical Application; Standard Climates
DIN 51 631
Special Boiling Point Spirits; Requirements
DIN 53 109
Testing of Paper and Board; Determination of Abrasion by the Abrasion
Wheel Method
DIN 53 302-1
Testing of Leather; Sampling; Sampling for Physical Testing
DIN 53 302-2
Testing of Leather; Sampling for Chemical Testing
DIN 53 309
Testing of Leather, Determination of the Chromous Oxide Content
DIN 53 326
Testing of Leather, Determination of Thickness
DIN 53 328
Testing of Leather, Tensile Test
DIN 53 331
Testing of Leather, Determination of the Stitch Tear Resistance
DIN 53 333
Testing of Leather, Artificial Leather and Textiles, Determination of the
Water Vapor Permeability
DIN 53 351
Testing Leather, Leatherette and Similar Sheet Materials; Permanent
Bending Behavior (Flexometer Method)
DIN 53 507
Testing of Rubber and Elastomers; Determination of Tear Propagation
Strength of Elastomers, Trouser Test Piece
DIN 53 515
Testing of Rubber and Elastomers and Plastic Foils; Tear Propagation Test
Using the Graves Angle Specimen with Incision
DIN 75 202
Determination of Color Fastness of Interior Materials in Motor Vehicles,
Xenon Arc Lamp Test.
DIN EN 20 105-A02
Textiles; Tests for Color Fastness, Part A02: Gray Scale for Assessing
Change in Color
DIN EN 20 105-A03
Textiles; Tests for Color Fastness, Part A03: Gray Scale for Assessing
Staining
DIN EN ISO 105-E04
Textiles; Tests for Color Fastness, Part E04: Color fastness to perspiration
DIN EN ISO 11 640
Leather, Tests for Color Fastness, Color Fastness to Cycles of To-and-Fro
Rubbing
DIN EN ISO 4045
Leather – Determination of pH
DIN EN ISO 4048
Leather – Determination of Matter Soluble in Dichloromethane
US regulation 571.302 German Regulation No. 302, Combustibility of Materials for Vehicle Interiors


Page 10
TL 526 50: 2001-10
D
A.1 
(Normative)
Oil deflection test (AATCC 118)
A.1.1 
Concept and aim
This oil deflection test serves to test the presence or the effectiveness of an oil repellent finish with
flourine chemicals or other chemical compounds, which can provide low surface energy.
In this test, the resistance of a substrate to wetting is determined by a certain series of test liquids.
A.1.2 
Delimitation and restriction
This test method is not intended to give an absolute measurement of the resistance of substrates
to all oily stain substances. Factors, such as the composition and viscosity of the oily substances,
type and procurement of the material, coloring agents, other finishers etc. can influence stain
deflection.
A.1.3 
Definition of "tendency to repel oil"
Tendency to repel oil i.e. oil deflection signifies the ability of a substrate to withstand wetting by oily
liquids.
A.1.4 
Oil test principle
For this test, a series of test liquids with various surface tensions is used.
Drops of the standard test liquid are placed on the surface of the substrate. It is then observed if
wetting by these drops occurs.
The grade for oil deflection is given by the highest number of test liquid by which the substrate is
not wetted.
A.1.5 
Equipment and test liquids
-  
Test liquids (see Table A.1)
-  
Dropping bottle
-  
Stopwatch
A.1.6 
Test sample
The size of the test sample should be at least 20 cm x 20 cm.
A.1.7 
Test sequence
Lay the sample to be tested out flat.
Starting with test oil No. 1, carefully place one drop of the test liquid with a diameter of approx.
5 mm on each of 3 points on the test sample. These points must be at least 5 cm away from each
other. The pipette may not come in contact with the test sample when dropping the test liquid onto it.
Observe for 30 s from an angle of approx. 45°.
