# TL52167E.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 22 1 
March 2005 
Factory-Fill Engine Oil SAE 5W-40 
Lubricant Requirements 
TL 
521 67 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
factory-fill engine oil, SAE 5W-40, gasoline engine, diesel engine, pump-jet 
 
Page 2 of 15 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-33/1 Dr. Koßmehl 
Tel.: -28508 
Dr. Beyersdorf 
Frau Hager-Süß Tel.: +49-5361-9-49035 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.05 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 521 67, 1997-02: 
─ 
Standard restructured 
─ 
Volkswagen standard VW 911 01 and Section 2 added 
─ 
Requirements of pump-jet diesel engines (production sample test catalog) integrated 
─ 
Requirements for elastomer compatibility, piston cleanliness, viscosity increase, sludge 
protection and the reduction behavior of the alkaline reserves adapted 
Previous issues 
1997-02 
1 
Scope 
The standard includes requirements for factory-fill engine oil for all gasoline and diesel engines of 
the Volkswagen Group, including diesel engines with pump-jet injection systems. This factory-fill 
engine oil is suitable for standard change intervals up to max. 15,000 km per year. 
2 
Symbols and abbreviations 
ACEA 
Association of Constructors of European Automobiles 
CEC 
Co-Ordinating European Council for the development of performance tests for 
lubricants and engine fuels 
3 
Description 
Factory-fill engine oil acc. to TL 521 67 
4 
Requirements 
4.1 
General requirements 
Engine oils according to this technical supply specification meet all requirements specified in 
VW 502 00 and VW 505 01, but have improved corrosion protection and must comply with limits to 
the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon content. 
All the requirements defined in Sections 4 and 5 of this standard shall be documented with the oil 
code in the test certificate issued by Volkswagen, which is to be provided with company stamp and 
signatures by the applicant. 
Engine oils according to this technical supply specification are subject to technical engineering 
approval. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 521 67: 2005-03 
 
This requires proof of further tests with positive results in addition to the scope of testing described 
in this technical supply specification. The Volkswagen Group reserves the right to define the scope 
of these production sample tests for each applicant. If no other agreements are made, the costs 
connected with this must be paid by the applicant. 
Any engine oil release issued by the Group shall become invalid if the oil's formulation is changed. 
This relates to changes and/or replacement of basic oil components and viscosity index improvers 
as well as additive systems and components thereof. 
Engine oils according to this standard must be miscible in any ratio with other factory-fill oils and 
commercially available engine oils. 
The release of a factory-fill engine oil and its rebrand shall expire 36 months after the original release 
date unless it is demonstrated that the requirements of the standard valid at that time are met. 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
Compliance with Directive 2000/53/EG End-of-Life-Vehicles. 
For purposes of evaluation by the Volkswagen Central Laboratory (K-QS-33, 1437/3; referred to 
hereinafter as the Central Laboratory), 30 liters of the oil in question shall be provided by the 
manufacturer upon request. 
4.2 
Standard Part Numbers 
─ 
N 052 167 00 
TL 521 67: 1997-02 
─ 
N 052 167 01 
TL 521 67: 1997-02 
─ 
N 052 167 02 
TL 521 67: 2005-03 
Engine oils with the standard part number N 052 167 02 can also be used for engines for which 
N 052 167 00 and N 052 167 01 are specified. 
4.3 
Shelf life 
Shelf life in unopened original packaging must be > 36 months at -20 °C to +50 °C. 
4.4 
Technical engineering release 
Release of this factory-fill engine oil requires technical engineering approval, which requires the 
successful completion of a series of production sample tests. A survey of the test scopes currently 
required for technical engineering approval must be requested from the Central Laboratory 
(production sample test catalog for engine oils; see Appendix A for a sample). 
The test scopes are carried out by the applicant or by an independent test laboratory recognized by 
the Volkswagen Group. The applicant is responsible for the costs. The evaluation of all the tests 
included in the production sample tests is carried out exclusively by the Powertrain Engineering 
Division and the Central Laboratory of the Volkswagen Group. 
Positive results in all the production sample tests are required for an engine oil release. The 
complete test scope of all the production sample tests carried out is to be documented in the 
Appendix to the test certificate. 


Page 3 
TL 521 67: 2005-03 
 
5 
Requirements for viscosity, composition and properties 
5.1 
Viscosity 
Viscosity class SAE 5W-40, test conditions according to SAE J 300: 1999-12, Table 1. Viscosity at 
high temperatures and high shear drops (HTHS viscosity) according to Table 2. 
Table 1 – Test conditions according to SAE J 300: 1999-12 
Temperature (°C) 
Test acc. to 
Viscosity V 
-30 
DIN 51377 
≤ 6,600 mPa s 
+40 
DIN 51562-1 
acc. to sample 
+100 
DIN 51562-1 
12.5 to < 16.3 mm²/s 
Table 2 – Viscosity at high temperatures and high shear drops  
HTHS Viscosity 
Test acc. to 
Unit 
Viscosity V 
at 150 °C and 106s-1 
CEC L-36-A-90 
mPa·s 
≥ 3.5 
5.2 
Composition and properties 
See Table 3 and Section 7.1. 
Table 3 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1 
Sulfate ash 
acc. to DIN 51575 
≤ 0.80% 
2 
Zinc content 
acc. to DIN 51391-3 
acc. to sample (%) 
3 
Phosphorous content 
acc. to DIN 51363-3 
acc. to sample (%) 
4 
Sulfur content 
acc. to DIN EN ISO 14596 
acc. to sample (%) 
5 
Calcium content 
acc. to DIN 51391-3 
acc. to sample (%) 
6 
Magnesium content 
acc. to DIN 51391-3 
acc. to sample (%) 
7 
Molybdenum content 
acc. to E DIN 51396-1 
acc. to sample (%) 
8 
Silicon content 
acc. to DIN 51390-2 
acc. to sample (%) 
9 
Boron content 
acc. to DIN 51391-3 
acc. to sample (%) 
10 
Nitrogen content 
acc. to ASTM D 3228 
acc. to sample (%) 
11 
Chlorine content 
acc. to DIN 51577-3 
acc. to sample (%) 
12 
Bromine content 
acc. to DIN 51577-3 
not permissible 
13 
Barium content 
acc. to DIN 51391-3 
not permissible 
14 
Total basicity 
acc. to DIN ISO 3771 
≥ 7.0 mg KOH/g 


Page 4 
TL 521 67: 2005-03 
 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
15 
Density at 15 °C 
acc. to DIN 51757 
acc. to sample (g/cm³) 
16 
Evaporation loss 
acc. to CEC L-40-A-93, Method B 
< 13% 
PAH content acc. to VW 505 50 
as specified in Test Specification PV 1448 
acc. to sample (%) 
Total PAH 1 to 12 
< 10 mg/kg 
17 
Benzo(a)pyrene 
< 1 mg/kg 
Corrosivity acc. to PV 1425 
Steel 
grade 1 
Copper 
grade 2 
18 
Weight Loss 
≤ 0.5% 
Corrosion protection behavior acc. to PV 1401 
18.1 
Corrosion grade 
grade 1 
19 
Impurities due to particles 
acc. to ISO 4406 
grades 23/22/18 for 4 µm/6 µm/14 µm, 
grades 23/18 for 5 µm/15 µm 
20 
Transmission IR spectrum generated with 
a layer thickness of (100 ± 1) µm 
specifying the oil code acc. to DIN 51451 
acc. to sample/must be specified 
21 
Composition of the base oil (base oil types 
and viscosities) and their manufacturers 
acc. to sample (%) 
22 
Content of additive package    
Specification of the package code and its 
manufacturer 
acc. to sample (%) 
23 
Content of viscosity index improvers 1) 
acc. to sample (%) 
1) 
The exact description and the manufacturer of the product, the polymer solids and pre-dissolved VI improver (polymer and fluid 
medium) content in the total formulation of the engine oil must be specified. 
5.3 
Test of dangerous components/substitute test 
A test for dangerous components and a substitute test will be carried out by the 
Volkswagen Group.  All data, information and specimens required for this are to be presented in 
a timely way with details on the oil code to the responsible department at the Volkswagen 
Wolfsburg Plant, PM-V, Post Box 1617. 
6 
Functional requirements 
The engine oil must meet the current requirements of the ACEA Oil Sequence A3/B4-04. 
6.1 
Anti-wear behavior 
The anti-wear behavior (Table 4) is tested using a component test stand that determines the wear 
on eight cam followers and the four cams of a camshaft. The results of tests carried out on these 
test stands will only be accepted if two reference tests have been carried out previously with 
reference oil RL 206 (batch no. must be specified). The test parts used must come from the parts 
batches released for this. This is to be documented in the test certificate. 


Page 5 
TL 521 67: 2005-03 
 
Table 4 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
Anti-wear behavior (cam follower/camshaft wear test) acc. to PV 5106 
1 
Spring load 
1 h at 700 N (run-in) 
16 h at 1,800 N (continuation) 
1.1 
Seizing wear 
not permissible 
Pitting 
on the cam follower 
≤ 20 µm 
1.2 
on the cam 
≤ 20 µm 
Wear 
on the cam follower 
(Σ of measuring points 2 to 6) 
≤ 100 µm 
1.3 
on the cam 
≤ 75 µm 
6.2 
Elastomer compatibility 
See Table 5. 
Table 5 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1 
Elastomer compatibility acc. to PV 3344 and Section 6.2 
RE-AEM1 (formerly VW-VAMAC) 
RE-ACM1 (formerly VW-ACM) 
RE-AK6/1 (formerly FPM-AK6) 
1.1 
RE-AEM 1 
Test duration 168 h 
1.1.1 
Hardness change 
(-8 to +8) Shore A 
1.1.2 
Drop in tensile stress at yield 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≤ 30% 
1.1.3 
Drop in elongation at break 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≤ 30% 
1.1.4 
Weight change 
(-3 to +15)% 
1.2 
RE-ACM 1 
Test duration 168 h 
1.2.1 
Hardness change 
(-5 to +6) Shore A 
1.2.2 
Drop in tensile stress at yield 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≤ 30% 
1.2.3 
Drop in elongation at break 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≤ 30% 
1.2.4 
Weight change 
(-2 to +4)% 
1.3 
RE-AK 6/1 
Test duration 3 x 94 h 
1.3.1 
Tensile strength at break 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≥ 8 N/mm2  
1.3.2 
Drop in tensile strength at break 
≤ 50 rel. % 
1.3.3 
Elongation at break 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≥ 160% 
1.3.4 
Decrease in elongation at break 
≤ 50 rel. % 
1.3.5 
Cracking 
not permissible 
 


Page 6 
TL 521 67: 2005-03 
 
6.3 
Shear stability according to DIN 51382 
See Table 6. 
Table 6 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1 
Test in the Bosch pump acc. to CEC L-14-A-93 
1.1 
Relative viscosity drop (100 °C) 
≤ 15% 
1.2 
SAE XW-40, after shear 
≥ 12.5 mm²/s 
6.4 
Test in VW 2.0 l/62 kW/4-cyl. gasoline engine according to PV 1449 
See Table 7. 
Table 7 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1 
Test fuel 
acc. to CEC RF-83-A-91 
Batch no. is to be specified 
2 
Viscosity +40 °C 
acc. to DIN 51562-1 
≤ 200 mm²/s – Vnew oil • ∆ mean (∆V) 
3 
Viscosity increase +40 °C 
acc. to DIN 51562-1 
≤ 130% – ∆ mean (∆V) 
4 
Basicity 
acc. to DIN ISO 3771 
≥ 5 mg KOH/g + TBNnew oil • ∆ mean (∆TBN) 
5 
Piston ring sticking 
acc. to CEC M-02-A-78 
0 ASF 
6 
Piston cleanliness 
acc. to CEC M-02-A-78 
(5 zone mean value of pistons 1 to 4) 
> 1 point 
6.4.1 
Recognition method for approval as oil test laboratory according to PV 1449 
Release test runs according to PV 1449 are only accepted from independent testing institutions 
recognized by the Central Laboratory that are neither directly nor indirectly involved with the 
mineral oil or additive industry. 
Only testing institutions with headquarters in the European Union and the USA are recognized to 
carry out work for release of engine oils according to this standard. 
All oil test runs are to be reported in writing or by fax to the responsible department K-QS-33 
(1437/3) of the Central Laboratory in a timely way. 
Participation by employees of the Volkswagen Group in the named test runs and their evaluation is 
to be made possible at any time. 
References for engine test stand equipment – overview: 
Complete referencing of an engine test stand for carrying out oil test runs (test according to 
PV 1449) is carried out after a total of three test runs with the calibration oil specified by the Central 
Laboratory. 
Before the beginning of a test stand referencing according to PV 1449, the current status of 
referencing conditions in the Central Laboratory shall be requested. 
The preliminary permit for an engine test stand is granted after two test runs by the Central 
Laboratory. 


Page 7 
TL 521 67: 2005-03 
 
6.4.2 
Recognition procedure 
Test laboratories that carry out engine test runs according to PV 1449 for the purpose of a 
Volkswagen engine oil release will be recognized by the Central Laboratory when they meet the 
requirements explained in this section. 
The recognition relates to specific named engine test stands of the respective test laboratories. 
6.4.2.1 General technical requirements 
Every test laboratory applying for a permit according to this standard must prove that each 
individual engine test stand that is used for the release test runs fulfills the technical requirements 
that ensure a proper test sequence according to PV 1449. On request, it must be possible for 
representatives of the Central Laboratory to check the test conditions on site after prior notice. 
6.4.2.2 Basic measuring technology requirements 
The first time an approval is applied for, at least 2 test runs according to PV 1449 with calibration 
oil ESSO EGL 76409 (the batch no. shall be specified) must be performed on the respective engine 
test stand to be recognized. A third test run is to be submitted within six months, after issue of the 
preliminary approval. If the test run provided for the official recognition delivers a “fail result”, a 
repeat run can only extend the preliminary recognition for six months. For an official recognition, 
another test run result shall be submitted within this six month period. The test engines must be 
test engines corresponding to the issue of PV 1449 valid at this time. For a reevaluation, the used 
oil samples and the piston sets from the test engines shall be sent to the Central Laboratory. The 
evaluation results of the pistons and oil samples, as well as the pistons, are sent back to the 
respective testing institution. 
Once a year, a single check test run is to be carried out on the recognized engine test stands with 
the calibration oil ESSO EGL 76409 (the batch no. is to be specified) according to the procedure 
described in the last section. If within this period of time there is a batch change of the reference 
fuel, the next check test run with the new fuel batch shall be performed at a respectively earlier 
date. Then the one-year period starts again. If this time period is exceeded, the oil release test runs 
carried out on these test stands are not recognized. 
6.4.2.3 Results evaluation 
6.4.2.3.1 
Test stand recognition 
The following mean value positions or intervals between the individual results shall be obtained by 
the first two test runs with the named calibration oil (see Section 6.4.2.2) on each individual engine 
test stand for the individual evaluation criteria. 
Mean value position of  
Maximum interval 
(between the individual results) 
∆Viscosity 40 °C 
76.7 ± 19.8% 
R ≤ 59.44% 
∆TBN 
-41.1 ± 8.9% 
R ≤ 18.75% 


Page 8 
TL 521 67: 2005-03 
 
6.4.2.3.2 
Limit value determination for oil releases 
From the results of the check test runs for a test stand, the respective preliminary test stand related 
limit values of the individual evaluation criteria for an oil release shall be determined continuously 
with its individual test stand results that are already available. 
bV 
[mm2/s] 
≤ B – Vnew oil • ∆mean (∆V) 
b∆V [%] 
≤ B – ∆mean (∆V) 
bTBN [mg KOH/g] 
≥ B + TBNnew oil • ∆mean (∆TBN) 
b 
test stand related limit value for the respective evaluation criterion 
B 
requirement limit according to this technical supply specification 
∆mean (∆V) 
 
differential value of the mean value position of the viscosity changes (∆V) 
∆mean (∆TBN) 
differential value of the mean value position of the total base number (∆TBN) 
6.4.2.4 Recognition procedure 
Engine test stands that meet the requirements according to Section 6.4.2.1 and Section 6.4.2.2 in 
all points and which meet the required test run results according to Section 6.4.2.3.1 will be 
recognized on a preliminary or official basis, respectively, by the Central Laboratory as test stands 
for engine oil release tests according to PV 1449. 
6.5 
M 111 E Sludge test according to CEC L-053-95 
See Table 8. 
Table 8 
Test fuel CEC RF-86-A-96 
 
Batch no. shall be specified 
Piston ring sticking 
acc. to CEC M-02-A-78 
ASF 
shall be specified 
Oil filter change 
 
not permissible 
Differential pressure on oil filter bar 
≤ 1.8 
Sludge evaluation according to CEC L-53-95, Chapter 8 
Cylinder head cover 
Points 
shall be specified 
Cylinder head 
Points 
shall be specified 
Oil pan 
Points 
shall be specified 
Upper timing case cover 
Points 
shall be specified 
Lower timing case cover 
Points 
shall be specified 
Mean value 
Points 
≥ RL 140 + 4s 
For the test runs use a fuel batch that has yielded a mean value of ≤ 8.5 points in the respective 
CEC team SG-L-053 inter-laboratory test using reference oil RL 140. Only results from test stands 
which have successfully taken part in the given valid inter-laboratory test of the CEC-SG-L-053 and 
for which the deviation in inter-laboratory testing with the RL 140 reference oil is not greater than 
the simple standard deviation from the mean value (ξ ± 1 s) shall be accepted for Volkswagen 
engine oil releases. The Central Laboratory declares the validity of an inter-laboratory test for 
Volkswagen engine oil releases with respect to the CEC SG-L-053. 


Page 9 
TL 521 67: 2005-03 
 
The requirement for the number of points to be attained with the oil under test (nK) on the 
respective test stand is calculated from the test stand value obtained with RL 140 (nPST RL 140) and 
the standard deviation(s) from the inter-laboratory test: 
nK = nPST RL 140 + 4s. 
In a case where unrealistically high requirements for the oil under test would be obtained (nK > 9.0) 
mathematically on individual approved test stands, the minimum requirement to be attained is ≥ 9.0 
points. 
The same fuel batch approved by the CEC team SG-L 053 and the Volkswagen Central Laboratory 
(ZL) shall be used as the test fuel for the oil under test and reference oil. Any test conditions that 
may deviate from the specified test procedure are subject to prior approval by the Central 
Laboratory. 
6.6 
Test in the VW 1.9 l/81 kW/4-cyl.-TDI diesel engine acc. to PV 1452: 1998-11 
See Table 9. 
Table 9 
Test fuel 
 
Batch no. shall be specified 
Piston cleanliness according to 
DIN 51361-2/03.84 
Points 
≥ meantest stand (RL 206) + Stest stand – 3 points
Piston ring sticking 
acc. to CEC M-02-A-78 
ASF 
0
1.
n
ASFi ≤
∑
 
(mean value of 4 piston rings of the 
1st groove) 
ASFmax = 1 (1st groove) 
ASFmax = 0 (2nd groove) 
 
deutsch 
 
Ó ASFi 
Σ ASFi 
n 
n 
 
6.6.1 
Recognition method for approval as oil test laboratory according to PV 1452 
Release test runs according to PV 1452 are only accepted from independent testing institutions 
recognized by the Central Laboratory that are neither directly nor indirectly involved in the mineral 
oil or additive industry. 
Only testing institutions with headquarters in the European Union and the USA are recognized to 
carry out work for release of engine oils according to this standard. 
All test runs are to be reported in writing or by fax to the responsible department K-QS-33 (1437/3) 
of the Central Laboratory in a timely way. 
Participation by employees of the Volkswagen Group in the named test runs and their evaluation is 
to be made possible at any time. 
References for engine test stand equipment – overview: 
Complete referencing of an engine test stand for carrying out oil test runs (test according to 
PV 1452) is carried out after a total of three test runs with the reference oil specified by the Central 
Laboratory. 
Before the beginning of a test stand referencing according to PV 1452, the current status of 
referencing conditions shall be requested from the Central Laboratory. 


Page 10 
TL 521 67: 2005-03 
 
6.6.2 
Recognition method 
Test laboratories that carry out engine test runs according to PV 1452 for the purpose of 
a Volkswagen engine oil release shall be recognized by the Central Laboratory when they meet the 
requirements explained in this section. 
The recognition relates to specific named engine test stands of the respective test laboratories. 
6.6.2.1 General technical requirements 
Every test laboratory applying for a permit according to this standard must prove that each 
individual engine test stand that is used for the release test runs fulfills the technical requirements 
that ensure a proper test sequence according to PV 1452. On request, it must be possible for 
representatives of the Central Laboratory to check the test conditions on site after prior notice. 
6.6.2.2 Basic measuring technology requirements 
The first time an approval is applied for, at least 3 test runs according to PV 1452 with reference oil 
RL 206 (the batch no. is to be specified) must be performed on the respective engine test stand to 
be recognized. 
For the first 3 test runs, the reference fuel batch and the reference oil batch shall be held constant. 
The test engines must be test engines corresponding to the PV 1452 valid at this time. For 
a reevaluation, the piston sets from the test engines used are to be sent to the Central Laboratory. 
The evaluation results of the pistons, are sent back to the respective testing institution. 
Once every six months, a single check test run shall be carried out on the recognized engine test 
stands with reference oil RL 206 (the batch no. is to be specified) according to the procedure 
described in the last section. If this time period is exceeded, the oil release test runs carried out on 
these test stands are not recognized. If within this period of time there is a batch change of the 
reference fuel, the next check test run with the new fuel batch shall be performed at a respectively 
earlier date. Then the six-month period starts again. 
6.6.3 
Results evaluation 
6.6.3.1 Test stand recognition 
The following mean value position and/or interval of the individual results shall be obtained by the 
first three test runs with the named reference oil (see Section 6.6.2.2) on each individual engine 
test stand. 
Mean values of 
Maximum interval 
(between the individual results) 
Piston cleanliness 
[points] 
64 ± 3 
R ≤ 3 
Piston ring sticking 
[ASF] 
shall be specified 
