# TL82415.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 8HR35 
June 2007 
Expansion-Type Hose Lines 
Requirements and Testing 
TL 
82415 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
expansion-type hose lines, line, steering, power steering 
 
Continued on 16 pages of AK-LH 03 
Fachverantwortung/Technical responsibility 
Normung/Standards  
EKTC/4 
Mr. Tiefenbach 
EKTC  Mr. Terlinden
I/EF-21 
Mr. Bochert 
EFA/2 
Mr. Petzel 
Tel.: +49-841-89-30969 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-45748 
Tel.: +49-5361-9-75357 
 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”. 
© VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate.In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
Numerical notation according to ISO practice (see VW 01000). 
Preface 
The contents of AK-LH 03 „Index n“ were used without alteration in this TL standard. 
The contents of AK-LH 03 were elaborated in the VDA1 team "Hydraulic Steering System" of the 
automotive companies AUDI AG, Bayrische Motoren Werke AG, Daimler Chrysler AG, Porsche AG 
and Volkswagen AG. 
Changes 
See change documentation 
Previous issues 
1988-12; 2001-09 
Additional in-house requirements 
Technical Supply Specifications (TL standards) are part of the drawing. 
Drawing requirements take precedence. 
Approval of first supply and changes acc. to Volkswagen standard VW 01155. 
The environmental requirements as specified in VW 91100 must be fulfilled. 
Version - 09.06 
                                                
1 VDA: German Association of the Automotive Industry 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Team Performance Specifications LH 03  "Index n" "Expansion-Type Hose Lines" 
 
 
TEAM PERFORMANCE SPECIFICATIONS 
April 2007 
 
Expansion-Type Hose Lines 
Requirements and Testing 
Team 
Performance 
Specification 
LH 03 
“Index n” 
 
 
 
Contents 
 
1 
Aim and scope 
 
1.1 
Aim 
1.2 
Scope 
 
2 
Definitions / further specifications 
 
3 
Objectives 
 
4 
Requirements 
 
4.1 
Hose line 
4.1.1 
Area of application/ general hose design 
4.1.2 
Burst pressure 
4.1.3 
Increase in volume 
4.1.4 
Change in length of hose material 
4.1.5 
Fitting design 
4.1.6 
Corrosion protection 
4.1.7 
Press-out force of restrictor 
4.1.8 
Low-temperature flexibility 
4.1.9 
Cleanliness 
4.1.10. 
Pull-out strength at tensile load 
4.1.11 
Leak-tightness of the fitting 
4.1.12 
Temperature cycle test with pulse pressure load 
4.1.13 
Dynamic long-term test 
4.1.14 
Marking 
 
4.2  
Hose 
4.2.1 
Hose structure 
4.2.2 
Materials 
4.2.3 
Separating strength 
 
 
5 
Target values 
 
5.1 
Environmental compatibility and recycling 
5.2 
Quality 
5.3 
Costs 
5.4 
Deadlines 
 
6 
Releases / changes 
 
7 
Confidentiality 
 
 
Page 1 of 16 
 
AK-LH: Team Performance Specifications 


Team Performance Specifications LH 03  "Index n" Expansion-Type Hose Lines 
VDA team    Audi - BMW - DaimlerChrysler - Porsche - VW 
Page 2 of 16 
Team comprising staff members of the following companies: Audi AG, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, DaimlerChrysler AG, 
Porsche AG, Volkswagen AG 
 
CHANGE DOCUMENTATION 
Suffix Brief description 
Date 
Name 
a 
First version 
08/93 
Thon 
b 
Concerning Section 4.1.1: operating pressure of standard and temperature 
types used to be 130 bar 
Concerning Section 4.1.8a: Table "tan/tab" Type II added, all pmax 
specifications omitted 
Concerning Section 4.1.9, Figure 5: pressure increase 0-100 %, 5 % 
restriction of tolerance band 
11/93 
Thon 
c 
Concerning Section 4.1.1 Table: burst pressure for standard and 
temperature hose types  
used to be 520 bar 
Note 1: short-term used to be 48 h; marking added; 
Concerning Section 4.1.4: dirt quantity used to be 1 mg/10 cm, max. 
elongation ≤ 200 µm  
for soft parts, ≤ 20 µm for solid parts; 
Concerning Section 4.1.6.2: 100% leak tightness test omitted; 
Concerning Section 4.1.6: used to be Section 4.1.6.1 
03/95 
Dittmann 
d 
Section 4.8.1 completely revised 
12/95 
Dittmann 
e 
Temperature cycle test completely revised; 
Section 4.1.4: change in length added 
Draft 
Dittmann 
f 
Section 4.1.1: nominal value added, footnote 2 burst pressure added 
Section 4.1.4: entire pressure range added 
Section 4.1.6: manufacturer-specific added 
Section 4.1.8: requirement at burst pressure omitted 
Section 4.1.12: Table 1 and 2 combined to a new Table, Figure 2 omitted, 
test procedure for oil temperatures exceeding 50 °C  supplemented 
Section 4.2.1: terms cover and core changed, new nominal values for 
hardness 
Section 5.1: note on VDA regulation 
 
 
g 
Section 4.1.1: "(max. operating pressure)" removed in row "length change" 
Section 4.1.6: "acc. to drawing" added 
Section 4.1.9: "...  free of corrosion etc. ..." added (solids), (elastomer 
components), residual quantity of dish detergent added. Freon added. 
Section 4.1.12: failure condition in more detail, number of specimens 
added, test until failure / max. 100 000 load cycles added, Table 1 added 
Section 4.2.13: "nominal value range" used to be "Nominal value, in as-
received condition", "standard production variation" used to be "tolerance", 
footnote 3) acc. to DIN 53504 added 
Section 4.2.2/4.2.3: terms cover/insert/core replaced. 
01/97 
Dittmann 


Team Performance Specifications LH 03  "Index n" Expansion-Type Hose Lines 
VDA team    Audi - BMW - DaimlerChrysler - Porsche - VW 
Page 3 of 16 
h 
Legends added to all Tables and Figues, 
table of contents corrected, 
"4.1.1.1 marking" replaced by "marking", 
Section 4.1.1: "outer bend radius" replaced by "inner bend radius",  
Section 4.1.3 "shall be determined" and "measurements shall be" 
(paragraphs 1 and 2) added, 
Section 4.1.4: "Under pressure" replaced by "On new components, under 
pressure",  
"Test carried out subsequently..." omitted, 
"During temperature cycle test" supplemented by "..., unpressurized" 
Section 4.1.5.: "solder nipple" replaced by "hose nipple", 
Section 4.1.10. Figure 2 added, 
Section 4.1.11: room temperature set from (23 ± 1) °C to (23 ± 3) °C in 
entire document 
Section 4.1.12: Test sequence: "...temperature stages (I - V)" instead of "(I 
- VI) ± 2 °C",  
Note: "... must not exceed the temperature deviation specified in Table 2, 
Note 1" supplemented 
Section 4.2.2: terms "inside layer" and "outside layer" interchanged in 
Table section "Tensile strength" and "elongation at tear"; Note 1) "DBL..." 
mentioned twice, Note 2) supplemented 
03/97 
Buchholz 
i 
Section 4.1.1, Table 1: 
- 
Column "Standard type III" added 
- 
For standard types I and II, oil temperature values set to same values 
as ambient temperatures 
- 
Oil and ambient temperature values (maximum, long-term and short-
term) changed for temperature type 
- 
"Inside diameter" supplemented by "(nominal width)" 
4.1.12  
- 
Figure 3: Double dimensioning (R250) removed, since length 800 and 
distance 500 are specified 
- 
Table 2: HNBR/CR supplemented in column CSM/CSM 
- 
Temperatures for HNBR/HNBR stage V changed to 135 °C 
- 
Permissible temperature deviation changed to ± 3 °C 
- 
Figure 4: "pmax = ..." supplemented by "... ± 3 bar" 
- 
Test  sequence: "... Failure of specimen" replaced by "... until all DUTs 
have failed" 
09/98 
Buchholz 
k 
Section 4.1.1, Table 1: 
- 
Column "Pressure type" omitted  
- 
Columns "Pressure type I" and "Pressure type II" added 
- 
"Operating pressure" changed to "Max. operating pressure" 
2 Definitions / Other specifications 
- 
DIN 20 024 invalid, replaced by DIN 20 018-4 
Sections 4.1.2, 4.1.4 and 4.1.8: 
- "DIN 20 024" changed to "DIN 20 018-4" 
Section 4.1.10: "Pull-out strength of the hose from fitting" extended 
06/00 
Buchholz 
l 
Section 4.1.4: "Marking of initial measuring length in unpressurized state" 
added 
Section 4.1.5: first sentence ("... positive-engagement connection...") 
omitted 
Section 4.1.8: " Mechanical damage..." changed to "Cracks not 
permissible." 
4.1.12  
"Requirement": failure condition changed 
Table 2: 
- column "hold time ..." added 
- 1) changed to "... of the hose that is closest to the pressure generator" 
01/01 
Buchholz 


Team Performance Specifications LH 03  "Index n" Expansion-Type Hose Lines 
VDA team    Audi - BMW - DaimlerChrysler - Porsche - VW 
Page 4 of 16 
m 
4.1.12 
- Free hose length and installation redefined 
- Figure 3 changed 
- Figure 4: pmax for pressure types redefined 
5 New wording 
6 New wording 
7 New wording 
02/01 
Buchholz 
n 
Section 4.1.9: Cleanliness 
- Additional remark "abrasive particles" 
- Additional remark: definition of hard and soft particles 
04/07 
Bochert 


Team Performance Specifications LH 03  "Index n" Expansion-Type Hose Lines 
VDA team    Audi - BMW - DaimlerChrysler - Porsche - VW 
Page 5 of 16 
1 
Aim and scope 
 
1.1 
Aim 
 
These Performance Specifications are a summary of the tests required prior to the release of expansion-type 
hoses used in steering systems. The development objective consists in enabling suppliers to deliver a completely 
pre-tested supply scope at their own responsibility. 
 
 
1.2 
Scope 
 
The performance specifications are a part of the drawing. They apply to all expansion-type hoses having a 
respective note in the drawing. 
 
 
2 
Definitions / further specifications 
 
Daimler Chrysler Supply Specification DBL 6623.60 Transmission fluid 
Volkswagen AUDI SEAT Technical Supply Specification TL 521 46 
Central Hydraulic System Fluid; Lubricant 
Requirements 
DIN 20 018-4 
Textile-Reinforced Hoses – Part 4: Testing 
DIN 50 021 
Spray Tests with Different Sodium Chloride Solutions 
DIN 51 221 
Tensile Test Machines 
DIN 53 508 
Testing of Rubber - Accelerated Aging 
DIN 53 509 T01 A 
Testing of Rubber - Determination of Resistance to Ozone Cracking -  
Part 1: Static Conditions 
DIN 53 530 
Testing of Organic Materials; Separation Test on Fabric Plies Bonded Together 
VDA Test Sheet 521-01 
Elastomers; Exposure to Test Oils 
VDA Guideline 260 
Marking of Components made from Polymer Materials 
 
 
3 
Objectives 
 
Objectives to be pursued shall be both compliance with deadline, quality, cost and weight targets and 
environmental compatibility as well as recyclability. 
 
 
4 
Requirements 
 
4.1 
Hose line 
 
4.1.1 Area of application/ general hose design 
 
See Table 1 
 
Notes 
1) Short-term: 96 h, over complete service life 
2) Increase in volume and burst pressure at room temperature (23 ± 3) °C 
3) Preferred material 
4) Optionally HNBR/HNBR; for temperatures, see "Temperature type" 
 
 
Marking: 
 
Hose material: 
Marking according to VDA Guideline 260 (specification by the German Association of the 
Automotive Industry) 
 
Crimped fitting: 
Date of manufacture/year 
Part number 
Company designation customer/supplier 
 


Team Performance Specifications LH 03  "Index n" "Expansion-Type Hose Lines" 
 
VDA team    Audi - BMW - DaimlerChrysler - Porsche - VW 
Page6 of 15 
 
Expansion-type 
hose 
 
Standard 
type I 
Standard 
type II 
Standard 
type III 
Pressure 
type I 
Pressure 
type II 
Temperature 
type 
Max. operating 
pressure 
bar 
120 
120 
120 
135 
155 
120 
Min. burst 
pressure 
2) 
bar 
480 
480 
480 
540 
620 
480 
Oil temperature 
- minimum 
°C 
-35 
-35 
-35 
-35 
-35 
-35 
- maximum (long-
term) 
°C 
+110 
+100 
+110 
+110 
+110 
+135 
- maximum (short-
term) 
1) 
°C 
+130 
+120 
+130 
+130 
+130 
+150 
Ambient 
temperature 
- minimum 
°C 
-35 
-35 
-35 
-35 
-35 
-35 
- maximum (long-
term) 
°C 
+110 
+100 
+100 
+110 
+110 
+135 
- maximum (short-
term) 1) 
°C 
+130 
+120 
+120 
+130 
+130 
+150 
Increase in 
volume 2) 
at 100 bar 
% 
Nominal 
value acc. to 
drawing 
± 5 % 
Nominal 
value acc. to 
drawing 
± 5 % 
Nominal 
value acc. to 
drawing 
± 5 % 
Nominal 
value acc. to 
drawing 
± 5 % 
Nominal 
value acc. to 
drawing 
± 5 % 
Nominal 
value acc. to 
drawing 
± 5 % 
Length change 
% 
+2 to -4 
+2 to -4 
+2 to -4 
+2 to -4 
+2 to -4 
+2 to -4 
Materials
3) 
- inside layer 
 
CSM 
NBR 
HNBR 
CSM 4) 
CSM 4) 
HNBR 
- reinforcement 
 
2 polyamide 
layers 
2 polyamide 
layers 
2 polyamide 
layers 
2 polyamide 
layers 
2 polyamide 
layers 
2 polyamide 
layers 
- outside layer 
 
CSM 
CR 
CR 
CSM 4) 
CSM 4) 
HNBR 
Inside 
 diameter (nominal 
width) 
mm 
10 ± 0,5 
10 ± 0,5 
10 ± 0,5 
10 ± 0,5 
10 ± 0,5 
10 ± 0,5 
Min. band radius, 
inner bend radius 
mm 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
 
 
Table 1: Area of application/ general hose design (Remark: Notes can be found on the previous page) 


Team Performance Specifications LH 03  "Index n" "Expansion-Type Hose Lines" 
 
VDA team    Audi - BMW - DaimlerChrysler - Porsche - VW 
Page7 of 15 
 
4.1.2 Burst pressure 
 
In the case of a pressure increase of 1 000 to 1 700 bar, hose lines must withstand the minimum burst 
pressure without being damaged. 
 
The test shall be carried out until failure of the DUT. The burst pressure specified in Section 4.1.1 must also 
be supported by the fittings. 
 
Test 
acc. to DIN 20 018-4 
Minimum burst pressure  
acc. to Section 4.1.1 
Test temperature (RT) 
(23 ± 3) °C 
 
 
4.1.3 Increase in volume 
 
The increase in volume shall be determined during the temperature cycle test using new components. 
 
During the temperature cycle test, measurements shall be carried out after 15 temperature cycles with 1 570 
load cycles each (= 23 550 load cycles), after a resting period of at least one hour in unpressurized state. 
 
Determination of the increase in volume: 
 
Test device acc. to ISO 3996 or comparable device 
 
Test sequence: 
 
a) Measure the free length of the hose line. 
b) Install hose lines making sure that they do not twist. 
c) Fill hose lines with test medium and remove all gases from the system. 
d) Correct the liquid level inside the burette to zero. 
Increase pressure by ≥ 10 bar/s and maintain the pressure (Section 4.1.1) inside the hose. 
e) Close the valve leading to the hose line after 100 s and open the valve leading to the burette for 60 s. 
Allow the liquid inside the expanded hose to rise into the burette. 
 
 
4.1.4 Change in length of hose material 
 
Determination of length change carried out on new components, in pressurized state: 
 
Procedure acc. to DIN 20 018-4; marking of initial measuring length in unpressurized state 
Permissible change in length: +2 % to -4 % 
over the entire pressure range up to the maximum operating pressure (Section 4.1.1). 
 
 
During the temperature cycle test in unpressurized state: 
 
The objective consists in determining permanent changes in length over service life. 
 
Prior to the temperature cycle test, the measuring length acc. to DIN 20 018-4 shall be marked on the hoses 
in unpressurized state. Measurements shall be carried out after 15 temperature cycles with 1 570 load 
cycles each (= 23 550 load cycles), after a resting period of at least one hour in unpressurized state. 
"Permissible operating overpressure" (DIN 20 018-4) = unpressurized state. 
Permissible change in length: +1 % to -2,5 %. 


Team Performance Specifications LH 03  "Index n" Expansion-Type Hose Lines 
VDA team    Audi - BMW - DaimlerChrysler - Porsche - VW 
Page 8 of 16 
4.1.5 Fitting design 
 
The hose fittings must neither damage the hose core nor destroy the connection between the individual 
layers. Leak tightness between fitting and hose at operating pressure must be ensured over the entire 
service life of the hose line. 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Maximum permissible rotary contour: 
 
 
4.1.6 Corrosion protection 
acc. to drawing 
 
 
4.1.7 Press-out force of the restrictor 
 
The hose is cut off 25 mm upstream and downstream the restrictor, which is then pressed out using a 
mandrel. 
 
Traverse speed 
25 mm/min 
 
Minimum press-out force 
≥ 1 000 N 
 
 
4.1.8 Low-temperature flexibility 
 
Execution of cold bending test 
acc. to DIN 20 018-4 
 
No cracks permissible. 
Hose nipple
Crimped sleeve 


Team Performance Specifications LH 03  "Index n" Expansion-Type Hose Lines 
VDA team    Audi - BMW - DaimlerChrysler - Porsche - VW 
Page 9 of 16 
4.1.9 Cleanliness 
 
The hose lines shall be delivered in a way that ensures protection from impurities. The inside of the hose 
must be free of corrosion and other residues. A thin film of slushing oil may be used as corrosion protection. 
Compatibility of the slushing oil with oils according to DBL 6623.60 and TL 521 46 shall be guaranteed. 
Type and quantity of the slushing oil require approval by Quality Assurance. The inside of the hose shall be 
free of lubricant residues.  The hose shall be in a rinsed condition (requirement regarding detergent 
residues: no formation of drops). The following residual impurities are permissible per hose line: 
 
max. total amount of dirt particles: ≤ 1,0 mg / 10 cm of overall hose line length 
hard particles: (200 x 90 x 90) µm at most 
soft particles: (2000 x 90 x 90) µm at most 
 
"Hard particles" are: metallic materials, hard elastomers (> 90 Shore A), polymers, fiber-reinforced plastics, 
fiber-reinforced teflons, polyamids, etc. 
 
"Soft particles" include elastomers (< 90 Shore A), paper, paintbrush hairs, textiles, etc. 
 
Abrasive particles such as quartz, sand, corundum and glass etc. are not permissible.  
 
Determination of impurities: 
 
The hose line shall be filled with filtered solvent. FAM 1 testing fluid, iso-octane, iso-hexane or Freon are 
permissible solvents. The content of the hose shall be filtered under slight suction through a porcelain 
suction filter, using a previously weighed "Blauband" filter (Ø approx. 40 mm). Afterwards, the hose shall be 
washed three times using approx. 5 ml of the solvent. Then, the filter shall be sucked dry and weighed. The 
residues shall then be measured under a microscope. 
 
 
4.1.10 Pull-out strength under tensile load 
 
Tensile testing machine according to DIN 51 221-1 including a recording device for specifying the total 
tensile force. 
 
Mount the DUT (see Figure 2) in such a way as to ensure straight and uniformly distributed machine tearing. 
Apply tensile force until hose and fitting separate. 
 
Load direction 
axial 
Tearing speed 
25 mm/min 
Test temperature 
(23 ± 3) °C 
 
Pull-out strength of the hose from the fitting: 
 
Standard types I to III, temperature type 
≥ 7 000 N 
Pressure type I 
≥ 8 000 N 
Pressure type II 
≥ 9 000 N 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: DUT for determining pull-out strengths 
