# TL901.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class No. 8J B0 0 
April 2005 
Hydraulic Brakes 
Requirements 
TL 
901 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
brake, hydraulic, leak tightness, storage 
D
 
Page 1 of 4 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
EFBB/3 
Krauss 
Tel:-78716 
NE-F/V2 
Niediek 
Tel: -22921 
Klemp 
Tel: +49-5361-9-75357 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsuppy.com”. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.05 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Technical Supply Specification 
TL 901, 2002-09: 
─ 
Section 2 “As-received condition” changed 
─ 
Standard editorially revised 
Previous issues 
1957-09; 1959-12; 1960-12; 1962-04; 1963-05; 1963-09; 1964-02; 1965-01; 1966-02; 1966-09; 
1968-03; 1969-10; 1971-07; 1972-03; 1972-09; 1973-03; 1974-04; 1976-06; 1977-10; 1978-07; 
1980-09; 1981-11; 1983-10; 1989-09; 1991-04; 1991-11; 1993-03; 2000-12; 2002-09. 
1 
Scope 
This standard defines the requirements for parts in the hydraulic brake system. 
2 
Design 
According to drawing; deviating requirements called out in drawings take precedence over this 
TL standard. 
Deviations in the single part TL standards take precedence over this TL standard. 
3 
Description 
Brake according to TL 901 
4 
Requirements 
4.1 
As-received condition 
Parts shall be free from impurities and damage. 
Residues/films of auxiliary processing means based on hydrocarbons (mineral oils/synthetic oils) or 
natural oils and their related derivatives shall not be permitted. 
Open holes and ports shall be individually sealed. The fitting or removal of seals must not permit 
any fluff, chips or other particles to enter into the brake line system. 
In order to ensure that the system can be filled under vacuum, the parts shall be supplied free from 
brake fluid, test fluid or mounting fluid. A film of fluid is permissible. 
Parts subjected to life testing or burst pressure testing shall be scrapped. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
TL 901: 2005-04 
D 
4.2 
General requirements 
Approval of first supply and changes according to Volkswagen standard VW 011 55. 
Environmental requirements according to VW 911 00 shall be fulfilled. 
Hydraulic brakes shall fully satisfy the applicable requirements specified in national regulations, 
in particular FMVSS 106, 116, 135 (USA), D 71/320/EEC (EC), R 13, R 13H (ECE), insofar as 
these parts are intended for export to countries in which compliance with these regulations is 
required by law. 
4.3 
Mandatory documentation 
Sections marked with a documentation bar are subject to mandatory documentation. The 
documents shall be kept on file for 15 years. 
4.4 
Corrosion resistance of metal parts 
Surface protection acccording to VW 137 50 
(see drawing) 
5 
Function 
All individual parts or units shall pass the following tests. 
5.1 
Leak tightness of parts subject to operating pressure 
Before and after the endurance test, a pressure drop of ≤ 10 bar is permitted after a pressure 
duration of ≥ 2 min. 
Pressure load 
≥ 200 bar absolute 
Duration of pressure 
≥ 2 min 
5.2 
Vacuum leak tightness (release test) 
Standard production monitoring shall be carried out when filling the system. All parts and the ASSY 
must display vacuum resistance. The maximum permitted pressure increase for the entire brake 
system ASSY shall be ≤ 2 mbar after 20 s. This value must be lowered accordingly for individual 
parts. 
Test temperature 
(23 ± 5) °C 
Pressure load 
(2.5 ± 0.5) mbar absolute 
Holding time 
> 2 min 
Test bay 
According to Test Specification PV 3218 
6 
Burst pressure (release and first-sample testing) 
The ASSY and all individual parts of the pressure system shall withstand a pressure load 
of ≥ 353 bar absolute pressure. 


Page 3 
TL 901: 2005-04 
D 
7 
Strength 
For light alloy components 
TL 825 22 
For cast-iron (gray cast iron) components 
TL 825 21 
8 
Storage of brake units and rubber parts 
For maximum storage times from date of production to date of installation, see Table 1. 
Table 1 
Max. storage times for 
Components 
original equipment 
spare parts 
Wheel brake cylinder 
Proportioning valve 
Brake caliper 
Pressure regulating switch 
Vacuum non-return valve 
Residual pressure valve 
Brake hose 
Stop lamp switch 
Molded rubber parts – loose and fitted 
Brake booster 
Brake master cylinder 
Brake line ASSY acc. to TL 823 74 
Brake master cylinder ASSY 
with brake booster 
5 years 
Electronic stabilization program (ESP) hydraulic 
unit ASSY 
Hydraulic brake booster, see TL 820 61 
1.5 years 
5 years 
8.1 
Storage requirements 
Storage area 
Cool, dry, free of dust 
Storage temperature 
(0 to +25) °C 
Store brake hoses free of stress on even surfaces. Store molded rubber parts in such a way that 
their normal shape is not changed. 


Page 4 
TL 901: 2005-04 
D 
9 
Referenced standards*) 
TL 820 61 
Brake Booster, Hydraulic 
TL 823 74 
Brake Line ASSY; Functional Requirements 
TL 825 21 
Brake Caliper ASSY; Requirements and Tests 
TL 825 22 
Light Alloy Brake Caliper ASSY; Requirements and Tests 
PV 3218 
Hydraulische Bremsanlagen (Hydraulic Brake Systems – currently only available in 
German) 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 137 50 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts; Surface Protection Types, Codes 
VW 911 00 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids; 
Policy, Specifications 
FMVSS 106 
Brake Hoses 
FMVSS 116 
Motor Vehicle Brake Fluids 
FMVSS 135 
Light vehicle Brake Systems 
71/320/EEC 
Braking Devices for Certain Categories of Motor Vehicles and their Trailers 
ECE R 13 
Braking System 
ECE R 13 H 
Passenger Car Brake Systems 
                                                
*) 
In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
