# TL_52437_EN 2021-09.pdf

Group standard
TL 52437
Issue 2021-09
Class. No.:
55129
Descriptors:
KAS, PC, PMMA, coating, functional coating, headlamp, headlamp outer lens, lens, lens with optical
patterning, outer lens, plastic outer lens, polycarbonate, polymethyl methacrylate, protective coating
Plastic Outer Lenses with Protective Coating
Material Requirements
Type without suffix
Previous issues
1994-09, 2005-02, 2007-11, 2013-04, 2016-04, 2018-03
Changes
The following changes have been made to TL 52437: 2018-03:
a)
Standard title changed
b)
Type A deleted
c)
„Anti-fog“ coating deleted
d)
Section 1 „Scope“: Requirements moved to Section 3.1 „General requirements“
e)
Section 2 „Designation“ expanded
f)
Section 3.1 „General requirements“ expanded
g)
Section 3.3 „Physiological compatibility“ added
h)
Section 3.5 „Process reliability“ revised and Table 1 modified
i)
Section 3.6 „Marking as per VDA publication VDA 260“ modified
j)
Section 3.8 „Conditioning“ modified
k)
Section 3.12 „Addition of recyclate“ added
l)
Section 3.13 „Surface/surface coating“ revised
m)
Section 3.14 „Requirements for the properties“: Test scope for released materials designated
with footnote a); requirements changed
n)
Section 4 „Notes on testing“ modified
o)
Appendix A revised
p)
Material data sheets deleted
Contents
Page 
Scope ......................................................................................................................... 2
1
TL 52437: 
Always use the latest version of this standard.
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature. A comma is used as the decimal sign.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies, the German version controls.
Page 1 of  12
All rights reserved. No part of this document may be provided to third parties or reproduced without the prior consent
of one of the Volkswagen Group’s Standards departments. | internal
© Volkswagen Aktiengesellschaft
VWNORM-2021-11


Page 2
TL 52437: 2021-09
Designation ................................................................................................................ 2
Requirements ............................................................................................................. 3
General requirements ................................................................................................ 3
Properties ................................................................................................................... 3
Physiological compatibility ......................................................................................... 3
Manufacture ............................................................................................................... 3
Process reliability ....................................................................................................... 3
Marking as per VDA publication VDA 260 ................................................................. 6
Delivery form .............................................................................................................. 6
Conditioning ............................................................................................................... 7
Evaluation of the measurement results ...................................................................... 7
Material ...................................................................................................................... 7
Color ........................................................................................................................... 7
Addition of recyclate ................................................................................................... 7
Addition of production waste ...................................................................................... 7
Surface/surface coating ............................................................................................. 7
Protective coating/surface protection ......................................................................... 7
Requirements for the properties ................................................................................. 7
Notes on testing ......................................................................................................... 9
Material ...................................................................................................................... 9
Heat aging .................................................................................................................. 9
Low-temperature behavior ......................................................................................... 9
Resistance to chemicals ............................................................................................ 9
Coating thickness measurement ................................................................................ 9
Applicable documents .............................................................................................. 10
.................................................................................................................................. 12
Delivery details ......................................................................................................... 12
List of released materials ......................................................................................... 12
2
3
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.6
3.7
3.8
3.9
3.10
3.11
3.12
3.12.1
3.13
3.13.1
3.14
4
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5
5
Appendix A
A.1
A.2
Scope
This Technical Supply Specification (TL) defines the materials requirements for plastic outer lenses
with a protective coating (e.g., front lighting systems or advanced driver assistance systems
[ADAS]).
Designation
The following notes must be used in drawings:
Example designation for a polycarbonate plastic outer lens coated with a protective coating:
Material
> PC < as per TL 52437
Surface
Protective coating > Manufacturer's coating designation < as per AMECA 5 Year Duration
List
1  
2  


Page 3
TL 52437: 2021-09
Requirements
General requirements
Approval of first supply and changes as per Volkswagen Standard VW 01155.
Granular material as per VW 50026.
Fogging characteristics as per VW 50181.
Resistance to open-air weathering as per VW 50185.
Materials sample inspection as per VW 52000
Material conformity as per VW 91101
Build sample approval as per VW 99000
Color as per drawing or color combination table; evaluation as per German Association of the Au-
tomotive Industry (VDA) publication VDA 280-6B
At least 2 sets of plastic outer lenses coated with a protective coating and one set of assemblies
(ASSYs) (e.g., headlamps) are required for a complete sample inspection.
The side of the lens that faces outward in the installed condition must be equipped with protection
against mechanical damage (e.g., scratching in car washes), against contact with media (e.g., win-
dow washer fluid), and against radiation (e.g., ultraviolet [UV] radiation) using a protective coating.
Properties
The coated plastic outer lens must not have any visible flaws in the substrate (base material) or in
any possible paintwork/coatings, e.g., inclusions, pores, cracks, or discolorations. In terms of its
coating, the surface must have a uniform appearance and a uniform gloss level.
The plastic outer lenses must be delivered in a low-tension state.
Physiological compatibility
The materials used must be physiologically safe. Substances that are emitted at elevated tempera-
tures must be toxicologically safe.
Manufacture
The plastic outer lenses are manufactured using an injection-molding method.
The protective coating is applied using a spraying or flooding method.
Process reliability
The recommendations listed in table 1 must be taken into account to ensure that the coatings can
be applied in a reliable process. Deviations from them must be agreed upon between the supplier
and the department issuing the release. The supplier must validate this process reliability and en-
sure that the coating thicknesses specified in the coating manufacturer's data sheets are main-
tained throughout the entire coated area. The curing conditions defined by the coating manufactur-
er in the processing instructions (UV doses and/or thermal drying parameters) must be ensured in
the component's functional areas and kept constant by means of checks at regular intervals. In ad-
dition, the damage scenarios specified in the recommendation notes must be ruled out.
3  
3.1  
3.2  
3.3  
3.4  
3.5  


Page 4
TL 52437: 2021-09
Table 1 – Recommendations for process reliability
Recommendation
Notes
Radii ≥ 3 mm
To prevent localized instances of insufficient or excessive coating.
If a coating is insufficient (see figure 1), there will not be adequate protec-
tion against mechanical factors, media, and radiation loads.
If there is excessive coating, there will (usually) be areas with accumula-
ted coating with a yellow tint that, when exposed to thermal load cycles
and/or environmental influences, will lead to coating separation and, ac-
cordingly, to the required protective function being lost (see figure 2).
For radii ≤ 3 mm, the supplier must document the process-reliable feasi-
bility. The coating thicknesses specified by the coating manufacturer
must be adhered to.
Absence of burrs
No parting line edges in the visible area
Accumulations of coating and insufficient coat-
ing must be avoided in areas at risk of stress
cracks (e.g., edges or zones where two-com-
ponent coating sections meet).
The coating drainage in the flooding method must be set up in such a
way that the coating does not drain over the lower lens edge or towards
the fender side. This would be equivalent, respectively, to the direction of
flow of window washer fluid when the vehicle is stationary (downwards)
or during driving (towards the fender). When there is excessive coating in
the drainage area, there is a risk of stress cracks if this area comes in
contact with window washer fluid.
If the spraying method is used, it must be ensured that in areas where
coating sections meet (e.g., edges), the coating is not insufficient. This
could lead to cracks forming (see figure 3 and figure 4).
Black area in the visible field or black bezels
underneath (only if polycarbonate is used)
–
Edge strip with a max. width of 5 mm
–
Use of infrared-transparent PC + UV-
curing coating system
–
Black bezels underneath must have a
minimum clearance of 5 mm (see
figure 5).
To prevent thermally accelerated coating aging.
The increased heat absorption of standard black components in compari-
son to clear components results in thermally accelerated aging of the
protective coating on top. This may result in cracking, coating separation,
and loss of function.
The thermally accelerated coating aging can be slowed somewhat by us-
ing infrared-transparent („IRT“) PC types + UV-curing coating system
(does not apply to thermally curing coating systems).
Aging resistance, presented schematically:
[PCbk + HCUV] < [PCbk,IRT + HCUV] < [PCclear + HCUV]
[PCbk + HCtherm] = [PCbk,IRT + HCtherm] < [PCclear + HCtherm]
where
PC: Polycarbonate
HC: Hard coat
bk: black
IRT: Infrared-transparent
clear: Colorless
UV: Ultraviolet-curing
therm: Thermally curing


Page 5
TL 52437: 2021-09
Legend
1
Insufficient coating
2
Coating accumulations
Figure 1 – Excessive and insufficient coating due to coating running away from edges on
burrs, parting line edges, and radii < 3 mm; cross section
Figure 2 – Impermissible coating accumulations with a yellow tint
Figure 3 – Lens with insufficient coating, crack in glinting edge after media is applied


Page 6
TL 52437: 2021-09
Legend
1
Zone where coating sections meet
Figure 4 – Detailed view of figure 3
Legend
1
Plastic outer lens
2
Black bezel
3
Clearance between bezel and lens at least 5 mm
Figure 5 – Clearance between black bezel and lens
Marking as per VDA publication VDA 260
As per the drawing, e.g., > PMMA < or > PC <
Delivery form
The plastic outer lenses are delivered as finished components of the ASSY (e.g., headlamps or
ADAS) according to the finished part drawing in each case.
3.6  
3.7  


Page 7
TL 52437: 2021-09
Conditioning
Prior to testing, the specimens required for the individual tests must be conditioned for at least 48 h
in standard atmosphere as per VW 50554 - 23/50-2.
Evaluation of the measurement results
The required numerical values apply to each individual measurement.
Material
See section 4.1.
Unless otherwise specified in the drawing:
for PMMA:
Molding material as per DIN EN ISO 24026-1
for PC:
Molding material as per DIN EN ISO 21305-1
Color
As per drawing
Addition of recyclate
As per VW 50026 – granular material class 0 (GK0) to GK3.
Addition of production waste
The addition of GK0 up to 10% is permissible, but the same trade quality must be used. Admixture
of other material qualities is prohibited. This even applies if the material composition is identical.
For example, the chance of different stabilizer packages interacting with each other must be ruled
out. In addition, only production waste that has been processed on the same production equipment
may be used.
Exception: If multiple molds are used for the finished parts, then the production waste from all of
these molds may be used.
Surface/surface coating
Protective coating/surface protection
The material surface must be protected against mechanical damage, contact with media, and radi-
ation with a cross-linking coating system (protective coating).
Only coating systems listed in the AMECA 5 Year Duration List1) are permitted to be used.
In the case of black surfaces (e.g., „black bezel“) and/or alternative coating systems, a separate
verification via an open-air weathering test with 4 annual cycles must be provided.
Requirements for the properties
The requirements for properties are shown in table 2.
If materials from the list of released materials in appendix A are used, then only a reduced test
scope is required. This is identified in the „No.“ column of table 2 with the footnote a).
3.8  
3.9  
3.10  
3.11  
3.12  
3.12.1  
3.13  
3.13.1  
3.14  
1)
AMECA – Automotive Manufacturers Equipment Compliance Agency, Inc.


Page 8
TL 52437: 2021-09
Table 2 – Requirements for the whole system of the plastic outer lens with
protective coating (e.g., coated headlamp outer lens)
No.
Property
Requirement
1
Protective coating on plastic outer parts
1.1
Stone impact test
as per DIN EN ISO 20567-1, method B
Characteristic ≤ 1
1.2a)
Cross-cut test
as per DIN EN ISO 2409b)
Characteristic ≤ 1
1.3
Resistance to chemicals,
see section 4.4 and appendix A
No visible changes
1.4
Tunnel wash resistance
as per Test Standard PV 3.3.3, but with a deviating
evaluation:
∆Haze = Haze1 - Haze0
where Haze1: after testing as per PV 3.3.3 (with re-
flow);
Haze0: in as-received condition
Haze measurement as per American Society for Test-
ing and Materials standard ASTM D1003, illumi-
nant: CIE-C,
measurement field: 18 mm, geometry: 0°/diffuse
∆Haze ≤ 13
2a)
Coating thickness,
see section 4.5
As per the coating manufacturer's material data sheet and
release status. The requirement must be met at all coated
points on the lens (coated area as per drawing).
3
Weathering simulation (short-term tests) for lightfastness and weather resistance
3.1
Weathering in dry, hot climate
as per PV 3929, 4 annual cycles
Requirements for the whole system of the plastic outer
lens with protective coating (e.g., coated headlamp outer
lens).
Clean the specimens tested as per table 2, con-
sec. no. 3.1 and 3.2 using a mild coating polish after test-
ing (e.g., internal designation: „Polish P10“ material no.
292777, external: „PO257“c) no. 22813).
Visual inspection: No changes
3.2
Weathering in humid, hot climate
as per PV 3930, 4 annual cycles
3.3a)
Environmental cycle resistance
as per PV 1200 in the ASSY, 20 cycles
3.4
High-temperature behavior;
see section 4.2.
Finished parts must exhibit neither embrittlement nor other
changes to the shape, color, or surface (e.g., haze or
cracking) that are visible and/or that impair their functional-
ity.
3.5
Low-temperature behavior,
see section 4.3
4
Flammability
as per Technical Supply Specification TL 1010
(only for applications in the vehicle interior)
≤ 100 mm/min
a)
This must be verified in the reduced test scope for released materials.
b)
Firmly press the adhesive tape (tesa® 46571) onto the surface before removing it.
tesa® 46571 is the manufacturer's product designation. It is produced by tesa SE.
c)
PO257 is the manufacturer's product designation. It is produced by menzerna polishing compounds GmbH & Co. KG.
This information is only intended for informational purposes for the users of this in-house standard. This does not signify an en-
dorsement of the mentioned products by the Volkswagen Group. Equivalent products may be used if it can be verified that they
lead to the same results.


Page 9
TL 52437: 2021-09
Notes on testing
Material
The identity test is performed with infrared spectroscopy.
Heat aging
Testing is carried out on complete parts that are not in operation (e.g., light units) in a forced-air
oven (recirculation mode). For this purpose, the parts are mounted in a test fixture simulating the
installed condition. Closed cavities must first to be drilled into with a hole diameter of
(3,0 ± 0,5) mm. Tightening torques of the attachment screws according to the tightening torque ta-
bles.
A forced-air oven with the damper closed must be used for interior applications.
Aging temperature (90 ±1) °C; aging period 24 +2
-0  h
Low-temperature behavior
Testing is carried out as in section 4.2, but in a freezer with forced-air cooling.
Aging temperature (-40 ±1) °C; aging period 24 +2
-0  h
Resistance to chemicals
Testing as per VW 80000 and VW 50002 (brushing):
Use a brush to coarsely apply a mixture of 80 vol% n-heptane and 20 vol% xylol (especially in the
area of the edges) to the part and allow it to flash off for 20 min at room temperature VW 50554 –
 2. Then visually inspect the parts for any changes that occurred, e.g., cracks.
Coating thickness measurement
1.
Coating thickness measurement by means of white light interferometry:
Spectral range: 380 nm to 1 020 nm
Evaluation: Fourier transform
Single-layer and double-layer evaluation using the refractive indices specified in the material
data sheets
2.
Coating thickness measurement by means of microsection and microscopic evaluation (arbi-
tral analysis)
The number and position of coating thickness measuring points (see figure 6 and figure 7) is yiel-
ded by superimposing a grid of approx. 4 cm × 4 cm on the lens surface. The measuring points lie
at the node points. Deviating from the grid, measuring points are also placed at the edge area,
spaced approx. 5 mm from the component's edge, on the grid's extended axes.
4  
4.1  
4.2  
4.3  
4.4  
4.5  


Page 10
TL 52437: 2021-09
Figure 6 – Example: Grid for determining the coating thickness measuring points:
additional measuring points are placed 5 mm from the component's edge, on the grid's
extended axes.
Figure 7 – Example: Numbering of coating thickness measuring points
Applicable documents
The following documents cited in the standard are required for the application of this standard:
Some of the cited documents are translations from the German original. The translations of Ger-
man terms in such documents may differ from those used in this standard, resulting in terminologi-
cal inconsistency.
Standards whose titles are given in German may be available only in German. Editions in other
languages may be available from the institution issuing the standard.
PV 1200
Vehicle Parts; Testing the Environmental Cycle Resistance
(80 °C/-40 °C)
PV 3.3.3
Paints and Varnishes; Scratch Resistance Testing of Clear Coats
PV 3929
Non-Metallic Materials; Weathering in Dry, Hot Climate (Exterior)
PV 3930
Non-Metallic Materials; Weathering in Humid, Hot Climate (Exterior)
TL 1010
Materials for Vehicle Interiors; Burning Behavior; Material Requirements;
updated translation: 2018-06
VW 01155
Vehicle Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes
VW 50002
Test Agents; Materials Compatibility
5  
