# VW01110-2.pdf

 
Group Standard 
VW 01110-2
Issue 2008-07
Class. No.: 
61000 
Descriptors:  
threaded joints, assembly, process assurance, bolt, screw, joint, process, assurance, driving tool system 
 
Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Page 1 of 30 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
Numerical notation acc. to ISO practice. 
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature. 
Technical Responsibility 
Standards 
 
AK-Schraubtechnik (Working Committee Threaded Joints), see Appendix A 6
EKTC/4  Christiane Otte 
Phone: +49-5361-9-78295 
EKTC 
Manfred Terlinden 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior permission of a Standards department within the Volkswagen 
Group. Contract partners shall obtain the standard only through the B2B supplier platform at www.vwgroupsupply.com. 
© VOLKSWAGEN AG 
 
vwstandard-2007-07 
 
 
 
Threaded Joints 
Assembly and Process Assurance 
 
Previous issues 
VW 01110: 1975-10, 1998-12, 2001-10 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Volkswagen Standard VW 01110 2001-10: 
─ 
Standard divided into two parts: 
 
Part 1: Design and Assembly Specifications 
 
Part 2: Assembly and Process Assurance 
─ 
Figures updated 
─ 
Fastening parameters and threaded joint characteristic values updated 
─ 
Test parameters supplemented 
─ 
Section 5.6 "Disassembly audits" added 
─ 
Section 6 "Responsibilities" supplemented 
─ 
Appendix A.1: Process assurance supplemented 
─ 
Appendix A.2: Threaded joint workstation evaluation, new description and updated 
─ 
Appendix A.3: Process optimization checklist 
─ 
Appendix A.4: Procedure for increasing the assembly speed 
─ 
Appendix A.5: Evaluation method, selection of tightening tools, supplemented 
─ 
Appendix A.6: List of people with technical responsibility supplemented 
─ 
Appendix B.1: VW 01110: 2001-10 added 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
VW 01110-2: 2008-07 
 
Contents 
1 
Scope .................................................................................................................................. 3 
2 
Description example............................................................................................................ 3 
3 
Assembly............................................................................................................................. 3 
3.1 
Selection of possible tightening procedures........................................................................ 3 
3.2 
Description of the most important tightening procedures .................................................... 5 
3.2.1 
Torque-controlled assembly AD15 to AD18 ........................................................................ 5 
3.2.2 
Angle-controlled assembly AW10 and AW11...................................................................... 6 
3.2.3 
Angle-controlled assembly AW12 ....................................................................................... 7 
3.2.4 
Yield-point-controlled assembly AS10................................................................................. 7 
3.2.5 
Torque-controlled assembly with pulse driving tool ADI16.................................................. 9 
3.2.6 
Assembly beyond the elastic limit with pulse driving tool ASI10 ....................................... 10 
3.2.7 
Monitoring procedures....................................................................................................... 10 
3.3 
Process parameters for driving tool systems .................................................................... 10 
3.3.1 
Explanation of terms for assembly and monitoring parameters ........................................ 10 
3.3.2 
Specific characteristic values for threaded connections.................................................... 11 
3.3.3 
Test parameters ................................................................................................................ 11 
4 
Test sequence for driving tool systems, categorization..................................................... 12 
4.1 
Desired specifications for secure driving tool systems...................................................... 12 
4.2 
Categorization of screw installations ................................................................................. 12 
5 
Process assurance............................................................................................................ 12 
5.1 
Minimum requirements for all driving tool systems: .......................................................... 13 
5.2 
Additional minimum requirements for partially monitored driving tools systems: .............. 13 
5.3 
Monitored driving tool systems.......................................................................................... 13 
5.4 
Process control.................................................................................................................. 13 
5.4.1 
Assembly parameters........................................................................................................ 13 
5.4.2 
Monitoring parameters ...................................................................................................... 13 
5.4.3 
Test parameters ................................................................................................................ 14 
5.4.4 
Defining the limit values for monitoring parameters .......................................................... 14 
5.4.5 
Determining the test parameters (retightening torque = residual torque).......................... 15 
5.5 
Rework .............................................................................................................................. 16 
5.6 
Disassembly audits (units), tests on the whole vehicle ..................................................... 17 
5.6.1 
Determining the test torque............................................................................................... 17 
5.6.2 
Determining the remaining torque..................................................................................... 17 
5.7 
Documentation .................................................................................................................. 17 
5.7.1 
Recording the actual value................................................................................................ 17 
5.7.2 
Safety documentation........................................................................................................ 18 
5.7.3 
Documentation options...................................................................................................... 18 
6 
Responsibilities ................................................................................................................. 18 
7 
Referenced documents ...................................................................................

Page 3 
VW 01110-2: 2008-07 
1 
Scope 
The standard is valid for new projects (new launches) for the assembly of threaded joints with 
metric ISO threads and non-metric threads (for sheet metal and plastic) on motorized vehicles, as 
well as for process assurance with Group-wide harmonized assembly tightening methods. 
For the current standard production, the guidelines in Appendix B.1 of VW 01110: 2001-10 are 
valid, whereas Tables 1 and 2 are not applicable, because they still list surface systems containing 
hazardous substances. 
Design, layout, and type of threaded joints with metric ISO threads and non-metric threads (for 
sheet metal and plastic) on motorized vehicles see VW 01110-1. 
2 
Description example 
Description example of threaded joints e.g. in drawings: 
Assembly and process assurance according to VW 01110-2 
3 
Assembly 
3.1 
Selection of possible tightening procedures 
The selection of the tightening procedure to be used in standard production can be determined by 
the responsible planning department, in consultation with the Design Engineering department, ac-
cording to the requirements of Table 1.  Within each of the procedure groups (below the yield point 
or beyond the elastic limit), a higher-level tightening procedure can be used. 


Page 4 
VW 01110-2: 2008-07 
Table 1 – Requirements for production (expanded tightening procedures for process assurance) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Limit deviations 
 
 
Quality  
class 
 
 
Pro-
cedur
e 
group 
Assembly 
tightening 
procedure 
(tool) 
tightening 
tools  
(examples) 
Screw  
utilization 
 (standard 
values) 
 as a % 
Preload force 
dispersion  
(standard 
values)  
as a %1) 
Possible
monitoring 
parameters
 
Torque 
tolerance of 
the tools 2) 
in % 
Tolerance
limits 
 
Angle of 
rotation 
in degrees 
Type of 
documen-
tation 
(com-
ments) 3) 
AD18 
Torque- 
controlled, 
manual 
- Click-type 
torque 
 wrench 
- Electronic 
  manual 
  wrench 
> 50 
± 35 
MI, WI 4) 
Testing 
according to 
ISO 6789 
± 155) 
- Cordless  
driving tool 
± 33 
± 15 
AD17 
Torque- 
controlled,  
rotary 
 driving tool 
 
- Shutoff 
torque 
 driving tool 
- Clutch 
 driving tool 
> 55 
± 33 
 
± 12 
MNA1 
ADI16 
Torque-controlled 
, pulse driving 
tool, electronically 
controlled 
- Pulse  
driving tool 
 (Volkswagen 
System QIS) 
 
> 60 
± 30 
MI, tI, II 
Testing  
according to 
 VW 10123 
± 10 
AD15 
Torque-controlled  
, rotary 
 driving tool, 
 electronically  
controlled 
± 28 
± 7,5 
- 
Torque 
 diagram
or MI 
or MNA1 
or MP 
AW12 
Below the yield point 
Angle- 
controlled, 
below the 
yield point 
Manual/rotary 
driving tool 
- EC (elec-
tronically 
controlled) 
 driving tool 
- Air driving 
tool, electroni-
cally controlled 
 
- Electronically 
 monitored 
 manual 
wrench 
  (AW12 only) 
> 65 
± 16 to ± 25 6) 
ME, MI, WI,
tI,  
Manual: ± 155) 
 
Rotary driv-
ing tool ± 7,5 
± 15 
 
 
± 5 
MNA1 
or  
MI 
or WI 
 
AW11 
Angle 
-controlled, 
manual 
- Click-type 
torque 
 wrench 
- Electronic 
  manual 
  wrench 
± 13 
MI, WI 4) 
± 15 5) 
± 15 
AW10 
Angle 
-controlled, 
Rotary  
 driving tool 
Electronically 
 controlled 
- EC (elec-
tronically 
controlled) 
 driving tool 
- Air driving 
tool, electroni-
cally controlled 
ME, MI, WI, 
tI 
± 7,5 
± 5 
ASI10 
Pulse-controlled, 
pulse driving tool, 
Electronically 
 controlled 
- Pulse 
 driving tool 
  (Volkswagen 
System QIS) 
± 10 
 
MI, tI, PI 
Testing  
according to 
 VW 10123 
± 10 
- 
AS10 
Beyond the elastic limit 
Yield-point- 
controlled 
Rotary driving tool 
Electronically 
 controlled 
- EC (elec-
tronically 
controlled) 
 driving tool 
approx. 100 
± 10 
ME, MI, WI, 
tI, GI 
± 7,5 
- 
Torque/ 
angle-of-
rotation  
diagram, 
Length 
change, 
MNA1 
 
 
Torque/ 
angle-of-
rotation  
diagram, 
Yield point 
monitoring 
WYPI,
7) 
 
1) Based on calculation principles of VW 01126-1 and the coefficient of friction range according to VW 01129 
2) With a machine capability index of Cmk = 1,67 according to ISO 5393 at 30%, 60%, and 100% of the nominal torque, 
exceptions are click-type torque wrenches, specialty drives, and pulse driving tools 
3) With chemical locking agents, it is permissible to document via testing torque MP  
4) Only electronic manual wrenches  
5) The dispersion occurs mainly because of operator influence  
6) Depending on screw installation hardness  
7) Monitoring of the MNA1 values is not sufficient 
NOTE: The tools must be set to the nominal value (torque, angle of rotation) 


Page 5 
VW 01110-2: 2008-07 
3.2 
Description of the most important tightening procedures 
The joining of threaded joints requires time for adapting components, surfaces, gaskets, corrosion 
protection waxes, etc. to ensure a secure assembly process and to prevent larger setting losses. 
The assembly speeds have a direct impact on the amount of the assembly and residual preload 
forces.  According to VW 01129, the release tests of new surface protection types must be con-
ducted at 200 min-1 during the insertion phase and 20 min-1 during the final tightening phase. 
Those speeds have proven effective at eliminating the stick-slip effect. Higher assembly speeds 
are possible in production and are currently being used. With threaded joints of category A and B, 
the assembly speed influence must be determined and evaluated by an engineering department 
based on statistical methods. Appendix A.4 describes the procedure. 
If higher assembly speeds, that have been verified by standard production tests (product and proc-
ess), have proven to be successful with COP (carry-over part) screw installations1) on the preced-
ing model, then it is permissible to use these assembly speeds.  
A short description is given as follows for the most important basic tightening procedures: 
3.2.1 
Torque-controlled assembly AD15 to AD18 
AD procedure (German abbr.), torque tightening procedure, (torque-controlled/angle-monitored) 
 
Figure 1 – AD tightening procedure (also see Table 1) 
 
 
Legend 
MA 
torque desired value 
MS 
torque threshold value 
M+ 
upper tolerance, torque 
M- 
lower tolerance, torque 
n 
speed desired value 
W+ 
upper tolerance, angle 
W- 
lower tolerance, angle 
WO 
upper limit, angle (switching) 
t+ 
upper tolerance, time 
t- 
lower tolerance, time 
Ml 
torque actual value 
Ml 
angle actual value 
tl 
time actual value 
(assembly parameters are in bold 
font) 
__________________ 
1) 
With COP screw installations, all parts to be connected and PDM requirements are identical to the preceding model. 
 


Page 6 
VW 01110-2: 2008-07 
The target variable is a specified tightening torque (MA). Figure 1 schematically describes the curve 
progression and the characteristic values.  
Due to the friction dispersion, a large preload force dispersion normally occurs with this procedure, 
even with a small dispersion of the tightening torque actual value (MI) applied. 
The applied tightening angle (WI) can be used as a starting point for the preload force dispersion 
with monitored driving tool systems. 
3.2.2 
Angle-controlled assembly AW10 and AW11 
AW procedures (German abbr.), angle-controlled tightening procedures (plastic or beyond the elas-
tic limit) (angle-controlled/torque-monitored) 
 
Figure 2 – AW tightening procedure (also see Table 1) 
Legend 
Ms 
torque threshold value 
M+ 
upper tolerance, torque 
M- 
lower tolerance, torque 
MO 
upper limit, torque (switching) 
n 
speed desired value 
MA 
angle desired value 
W+ 
upper tolerance, angle 
W- 
lower tolerance, angle 
t+ 
upper tolerance, time 
t- 
lower tolerance, time 
Ml 
angle actual value 
Ml 
torque actual value 
tl 
time actual value 
(assembly parameters are in 
bold font) 
 


Page 7 
VW 01110-2: 2008-07 
 
The angle-of-rotation control is a standard procedure for assembly beyond the elastic limit. Figure 2 
schematically describes the curve progression and the characteristic values. The target variable is 
a specified tightening angle of rotation (WA), which is counted starting at a particular initial torque 
(MS). The threaded connection is brought into the yield limit in a defined manner due to the pre-
tightening below the yield limit for the screw and the subsequent application of the angle of rotation. 
In this process, the respective screw strength and thread pitch determine the achievable preload 
force. The influence of the screw head friction on the preload force no longer exists. 
A small preload force dispersion occurs with a simultaneously larger dispersion of the resulting final 
torque (MI). The procedure is most easily checked via the recording of the torque/angle-of-rotation 
characteristic curve. The yield point is exceeded in the upper area of the curve for torque and angle 
of rotation. This is characterized by a curve that becomes flatter. 
3.2.3 
Angle-controlled assembly AW12 
In certain applications in which the screw's yield limit must not or cannot be exceeded, however, it 
is advantageous to thread using angle-of-rotation control. Examples of this include taper-threaded 
connections, insufficient component strength, or insufficient driving tool capacity. In these cases, 
procedure AW12 is suitable as it can be designed such that the yield point for the screw is not 
reached. A reduction in the friction influences results in a smaller preload force dispersion; how-
ever, the dispersion of the AW11 procedure is not reached. Even though the connection must be 
designed beyond the elastic limit, the disadvantages of the friction influence remain to a certain 
extent. 
3.2.4 
Yield-point-controlled assembly AS10 
Yield-point-controlled assembly procedures are only suitable with very short clamping lengths, be-
cause these procedures are normally not possible with handheld systems. Figure 3 schematically 
describes the curve progression and the characteristic values. An alternative specification must be 
provided for After-Sales Service. 
With yield-point-controlled (SG, German abbreviation) assembly, the range beyond the elastic limit 
is expected within an angle-of-rotation range with range limits WSG and WSG+. The gradient is moni-
tored within this range. If the gradient actual value (GI) exceeds a previously set drop (percentage, 
GDP) from the maximally occurring gradient (G^), the yield point is achieved and the driving tool 
switches off.  
The filter factor to be previously set is determined such that outliers in the torque curve, caused, 
among other things, by bevel gear drives in angular heads, do not lead to yield point detection. 


Page 8 
VW 01110-2: 2008-07 
 
Yield point check for tightening beyond the elastic limit in the AW procedure example 
 
Figure 3 – AS tightening procedure (see Table 1) 
 
Legend 
GDP 
gradient difference, percent 
SH 
screw installation hardness 
FD 
manufacturer-specific filtering 
 
or damping 
WSG+ 
upper tolerance, angle 
 
yield point 
WSG-lower tolerance, angle 
 
yield point 
WSG l 
angle yield point 
 
Actual value 
Gl 
gradient actual value 
(G∧ 
maximum gradient value) 
 


Page 9 
VW 01110-2: 2008-07 
 
3.2.5 
Torque-controlled assembly with pulse driving tool ADI16 
ADI procedure (German abbr.), torque tightening procedure, (torque-controlled/angle-monitored) 
 
Figure 4 – ADI tightening procedure (also see Table 1) 
 
Legend 
MA 
torque desired value 
Ms 
torque threshold value 
M- 
lower tolerance, torque 
MI 
torque actual value 
M+ 
upper tolerance, torque 
tl 
 
time actual value 
t+ 
upper tolerance, time 
t- 
lower tolerance, time 
P1 
pressure, 1st stage 
P2 
pressure, 2nd stage 
l- 
minimum number of 
pulses 
I+ 
maximum number of 
pulses 
 
Pulse driving tools transfer torque with practically no reaction and therefore do not require any ad-
ditional torque support. Figure 4 schematically describes the curve progression and the character-
istic values. 
Insertion times of < 100 ms are typical due to idle speeds. Setting losses from connections that 
give can be reduced through longer final joining times. Threaded connections with increased inser-
tion or joining torques (e.g. nuts with locking element or chemical locking elements) can only be 
executed with larger-dimensioned driving tools with this procedure due to the temperature influ-
ence. 
Only monitored pulse driving tool systems (e.g. Volkswagen QIS= Quality Pulse tightening Sys-
tems, German abbr.) are used. 
The target variable is a specified pulse level (100%) with a minimum number of pulses and a speci-
fied pulse level deviation that must correspond to a certain tightening torque. As monitoring pa-
rameters, pulse PI is counted starting at a defined pulse threshold MI up to the shut-off point.  
 


Page 10 
VW 01110-2: 2008-07 
 
3.2.6 
Assembly beyond the elastic limit with pulse driving tool ASI10 
Pulse driving tools can also be used for assembly beyond the elastic limit. Essentially, the prereq-
uisites are the same as those for the ADI procedure. When dimensioning the tool, note that losses, 
e.g. due to extensions (torsion bar), pressure fluctuations in the supply lines, or even associated 
oscillating masses on the side of the threaded connection, can lead to a significant reduction in the 
maximum torque as specified by the manufacturer. If the dimensioning for the driving tool is suffi-
cient, this results in a more or less constant pulse level during final joining, which corresponds to 
the final torque in the range beyond the elastic limit. 
3.2.7 
Monitoring procedures 
In addition, the driving tool systems offer many options for tightening in a proper and process-
secure manner on a case-by-case basis. 
Some examples include the following: 
─ 
Screw-on torque monitoring of locknuts 
─ 
Joining gradient processes with assembly parts that are difficult to move 
─ 
Insertion depth monitoring for very long threads 
3.3 
Process parameters for driving tool systems 
Tightening parameters are subdivided into assembly, monitoring, and test parameters. 
The meanings and abbreviated terms are explained in Tables 2 through 4 as follows. 
3.3.1 
Explanation of terms for assembly and monitoring parameters 
See Table 2. 
Table 2 – Assembly and monitoring parameters 
Designation 
Description 
Designation
Description 
MA 
Torque desired value 
WA 
Angle desired value 
MS 
Torque threshold value 
WI 
Angle actual value 
MI 
Torque actual value 
W+ 
Upper tolerance, angle 
M+ 
Upper tolerance, torque 
W- 
Lower tolerance, angle 
M- 
Lower tolerance, torque 
WG+ 
Angle, total, upper tolerance 
MTG 
Torque, trigger, total angle 
WG- 
Angle, total, lower tolerance 
MEM 
Torque, insertion, mean value 
WGI 
Angle, total, actual value 
ME+ 
Torque, insertion value, upper tolerance 
WEM 
Angle, insertion, mean value 
ME- 
Torque, insertion value, lower tolerance 
WEB 
Angle, insertion, range 
MTS 
Torque, trigger, stick-slip 
WER 
Angle, insertion, retrospect 
MTP 
Torque, trigger, plausibility 
WSGI 
Angle, yield point, actual value 
MTR 
Torque, trigger, redundancy 
WSG+ 
Angle, yield point, upper tolerance 
MDP 
Torque, difference, plausibility 
WSG- 
Angle, yield point, lower tolerance 
MDR 
Torque, delta, redundancy 
WTR 
Angle, trigger, redundancy 
G+ 
Gradient, upper tolerance 
WDR 
Angle delta redundancy 
G- 
Gradient, lower tolerance 
I+ 
Maximum number of pulses 
GDP 
Gradient, difference, percent 
I- 
Minimum number of pulses 
 
