# VW01110-1.pdf

Threaded Joints
Design and Assembly Specifications
Previous issues
VW 01110: 1975-10, 1998-12, 2001-10; VW 01110-1: 2007-06, 2008-04, 2008-07
Changes
The following changes have been made as compared to VW 01110-1: 2008-07:
–
Section 4.1.6 completely revised
–
Standard editorially revised
–
Appendices A and B added
Contents
Page
Scope ............................................................................................................................. 2
Description example ...................................................................................................... 2
Surface protection .......................................................................................................... 2
Design ............................................................................................................................ 4
Metric threads ................................................................................................................ 4
General principles .......................................................................................................... 4
Dimensioning ................................................................................................................. 4
Design ............................................................................................................................ 4
Selection of the joining element ..................................................................................... 6
Selecting the assembly tightening procedure .............................................................. 10
Categorization of screw installations by Design Engineering ...................................... 11
Information in tabular drawings .................................................................................... 11
Metric thread-forming tapping screws .......................................................................... 15
Notes on design of non-metric threads (for sheet metal and plastic) ........................... 15
Responsibilities ............................................................................................................ 16
1
2
3
4
4.1
4.1.1
4.1.2
4.1.3
4.1.4
4.1.5
4.1.6
4.1.7
4.2
4.2.1
5
Group Standard
VW 01110-1
Issue 2009-02
Class. No.:
61000
Descriptors:
threaded joints, assembly, design, screw, joint, specification
Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
Numerical notation acc. to ISO practice.
Page 1 of 30
Technical responsibility
Standards Department
EFAH/4
Harald Möbus
Tel.: +49 5361 9 39663
AK-Schraubtechnik (Threaded Joints
Team)
EKTC/4 Jürgen Wiesner
EKTC
Tel.: +49 5361 9 29064
Manfred Terlinden
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform www.vwgroupsupply.com.
© Volkswagen Aktiengesellschaft
VWNORM-2008-12f
QUELLE: NOLIS


Referenced documents ................................................................................................ 16
Index ............................................................................................................................ 18
Rules governing categorization of screw installations ................................................ 20
OA 720 ....................................................................................................................... 25
6
7
Appendix A
Appendix B
Scope
This standard applies to the design, dimensioning, and development of threaded joints with metric
ISO threads and non-metric threads (for sheet steel and plastics) for use in vehicles.
See Volkswagen standard VW 01110-2 for information on assembly and process assurance using
assembly tightening procedures standardized for the entire Group.
Description example
Description example for threaded joints in drawings and PDM sheets (product description manuals):
Threaded joints acc. to VW 01110-1
Surface protection
For uniformity reasons, only the "heavy protection" protection class (grade 6) is still permissible,
independent of the installation position, e.g. chassis, interior (except for seat belt anchorage, welded
parts, and parts in the oil chamber). The protective systems indicated must be considered a general
guideline.
The choice of corrosion protection system according to Table 1 depends on the required functional
characteristics. For reasons of quality and costs, preference must be given to silver-colored coatings.
Surface protection codes and their meaning are specified in VW 13750.
1  
2  
3  
Page 2
VW 01110-1: 2009-02


Table 1 – Preferred protection systems
3.1                 Silver-colored coatings
Code
Surface protection
Especially suitable for
Less suitable for
Ofl-t647a)
Zinc flake coating acc. to Tech‐
nical Supply Specification
TL 245
Fk b) ≥ 10.9 (nominal tensile
strength ≥ 1 000 MPa) and
Fk 12
Electrically conducting connec‐
tions (ground connections)
External thread < M6
Internal thread < M10
Internal drives < T30 and
< N8
Ofl-r645c)d)
Zinc/nickel alloy coating acc. to
TL 244, with sliding agent acc.
to TL 52132
External thread < M6, with
internal drive
Fk ≥ 10.9 (nominal tensile
strength
≥ 1 000 MPa) and Fk 12
Electrically conducting con‐
nections
Operational temperature >
150 °C
Internal thread < M10
3.2                  Black coatings
Ofl-r677e)f)
Zinc/nickel alloy coating acc. to
TL 244, with sliding agent acc.
to TL 52132
External thread < M8 with in‐
ternal drive
Electrically conducting connec‐
tions
Fk ≥ 10.9 (nominal tensile
strength ≥ 1 000 MPa) and Fk 12
Operational temperature >
150 °C
3.3                  Inside of units (in lubrication system) or as transport protection
Code
Surface protection
Less suitable for
Ofl-b140g)
Thin layer zinc-phosphated; oiled acc. to
TL 240
Components outside of units
Operational temperatures > 180 °C
3.4                  Contact with magnesium components
Ofl-c697
Zinc-coating plus thick layer passivation and
sealing acc. to TL 194, with sliding agent acc.
to TL 52132
Fk ≥ 10.9 (nominal tensile strength ≥ 1 000 MPa)
and Fk 12
3.5                  Welded parts
Ofl-c340
Zinc-coating plus thin layer passivation acc. to
TL 217
Fk ≥ 10.9 (nominal tensile strength ≥ 1 000 MPa)
a)
Ofl-t610 (without topcoat and sliding agent additive) is required in conjunction with microencapsulation according to DIN 267-27, locking
coating according to DIN 267-28, or for body-in-white constructions.
b)
Fk = Property class (German abbr.)
c)
Ofl-r642 is required in conjunction with microencapsulation according to DIN 267-27, locking coating according to DIN 267-28, or for
steel body-in-white constructions. For self-tapping screws or PT screws, Ofl-r643 is required (without sliding agent).
d)
Ofl-c347 is permissible in the seat belt anchorage area.
e)
Ofl-r672 is required in conjunction with microencapsulation according to DIN 267-27 and locking coating according to DIN 267-28. For
self-tapping screws or PT screws, Ofl-r673 is required (without sliding agent).
f)
For Fk ≥ 10.9 and strengths ≥ 1 000 MPa, Ofl-t630 is required (reduced maximum operational temperature of 80 °C and reduced
corrosion resistance).
g)
Ofl-b149 is required in conjunction with microencapsulation according to DIN 267-27.
Page 3
VW 01110-1: 2009-02


Design
Metric threads
General principles
Sufficiently high clamping forces (preload forces) must prevail in the fastened components under all
operating conditions in order to perform the desired functions. If the minimum preload forces have
not been achieved during assembly or if they are not maintained during operation, the clamped parts
could move relative to one another. This causes self-loosening of the connection or breakage of the
screw/bolt as a result of the reversed bending stresses.
The preload force achieved during assembly of the threaded joint is subject to many influences, such
as friction, tightening procedure, and tightening tool. For the time being, the measurement of the
preload value (being the actual target value) during assembly requires unjustifiable effort under stan‐
dard production conditions. Hence, this is only possible for single cases (lab, trial). Therefore, the
variables must be taken into account as early as in the design of the threaded joint and in the selection
of the tightening procedure and tightening tools.
Application of VW 01110-1 entails compulsory application of VW 01110-2.
Dimensioning
Operating forces and torque that are effective in the threaded joint must be determined by measure‐
ment or estimated by calculation. It is necessary to consider the losses in preload force due to setting.
Preferably, tightening torques for metric ISO threads must be determined acc. to VW 01126-1 and
VW 01126-2. The determination of the minimum preload force using the calculating steps set down
in VDI 2230-1 "Systematic Calculation of High Duty Bolted Joints" serves as a basis for dimensioning
threaded joints.
Design
The specifications in VW 60361 regarding the reduction of types must be complied with in the design
of the threaded joints.
The parts specified in the catalog for diversity reduction for fastening elements (VRV1) Catalog) of
Design Engineering must always be used. The catalog can be accessed in the NVS standard part
administration system under "Further links".
In this context, the search for standard and multi-use parts is exclusively permissible in the standard
part administration system NVS. In the event of deviations, please contact the organizational unit
Standard and Multi-Use Parts (EKTC/3).
The design principle is that, in case of excessive stress, the stud breaks in the non-mating, loaded
thread area or in the shank. As a result, the breaking force of the nonmating, loaded area of the thread
(or shank) must be adjusted to the breaking strength of the joint (screw head, stripping force of screw
and nut thread). Design guidelines complying with these requirements are contained in VDI 2230-1.
Additionally, the following design guidelines must be complied with:
–
The shape of the parts to be fastened must be designed in a way that the parts for bridging
separating gaps abut one another in a largely stress-free manner, instead of the preload force 
producing the design height during tightening. A maximum of 20% of the tightening torque is
allowed to be used for the joining of the components. For assembly with angle-of-rotation control,
4  
4.1  
4.1.1  
4.1.2  
4.1.3  
1)
Reduction of joining element variants (German abbreviation)
Page 4
VW 01110-1: 2009-02


this 20% limit relates to the minimum tightening torque (MA min) after assembly beyond the elastic
limit (see VW 01126-2).
–
Through hole acc. to DIN EN 20273 and bore tolerances acc. to VW 01027, "medium".
–
Tolerances must be specified for the hole overlap such that stress-free threading is possible.
–
Limit deviations for threaded parts must be chosen from VW 11610, VW 11611, VW 11613,
VW 11615, VW 11624, VW 11625, VW 11627 or VW 11628. These basic standards for threads
are also compulsory in the case of organic surface protection, provided that the maximum limit
deviations for the thickness of metal coatings are not exceeded.
–
Drive types for threaded parts are
External drive: hexagon, defined in DIN ISO 272 (tolerances acc. to DIN 475-1)
Internal drive: hexalobular (VW 01048) ≤ M6, multipoint (VW 01043) > M6.
–
Drive type hexalobular socket according to VW 01048 is only conditionally suitable for assembly
of parts beyond the elastic limit according to VW 60250 (strengths ≥ 1 000 MPa) due to reduced
bit service life.
–
Clearance: VW 01029 is the governing standard for the tightening tool accessibility.
–
In order to ensure that paint-coated threads are moving smoothly, the maximum paint coat thick‐
ness must not be exceeded. For completely curing coats of paint (e.g., cathodic electrocoating),
the requirement is that the 6H/6h tolerance zone position (zero line) represents the maximum
after paint application. Furthermore, the components must be free of sealing compounds, adhe‐
sives, and other coatings.
–
On principle, it must be ensured that the threaded tightening points are free of wax (thread,
contact surface of the parts, and underhead bearing surface). If this is impossible for threaded
tightening points in the case of dipped vehicle bodies, appropriate design measures (e.g., ribs
or positive locking) must be implemented and their effectiveness ensured by road tests. For
process assurance, an even wax deposition must be ensured in this case; wax accumulations
on the threaded tightening points are not permissible.
–
Engagement length for internal threads of components according to Table 3 and Table 4.
–
For blind hole threads, the usable thread length as well as the blind hole depth must be designed
in such a way that a screw end clearance of at least 1 × P (P = flank lead) is ensured in the
unloaded condition.
–
Surface pressure under the screw head must be taken into account; if necessary, provide with
flange bolts/nuts, and in extreme cases washers (see Table 2 for standard values). For dimen‐
sioning of loaded components, the surface pressure for the maximum assembly preload force
FM, max. must be taken into consideration (see VDI 2230-1). For most materials, the permissible
boundary surface pressure may exceed the minimum tensile strength value. This applies, in
particular, to tightening procedures beyond the elastic limit. Mg alloys that are not heat-resistant
are an exception to this. This must be ensured by appropriate testing.
–
Zinc die casting materials must not be used in joints for which a minimum preload force must be
ensured.
–
In order to reduce the influence of setting values, the goal must be to use the highest possible
clamping length ratio lk/d) (see also VDI 2230-1).
–
The requirements in VW 01045 must be taken into consideration in the design of threaded
through holes.
–
Internal threads must be designed in such a way that threaded inserts can be used as a repair
solution if the internal thread becomes damaged. The length of the threaded inserts must comply
with the specifications in Table 3 and Table 4.
Page 5
VW 01110-1: 2009-02


–
The assembly preload force of weld screws, studs, and nuts must not be supported by the weld
seam, but by the flange or the body.
–
If possible, the installability of the screws from above must be ensured in order to avoid accu‐
mulations in internal threads due to abraded zinc flake coatings of the screws (cold welding).
Selection of the joining element
VW 60250 must be referenced in drawings and ASSY drawings if the drawing contains joining ele‐
ments with strengths ≥ 1 000 MPa (≥ Fk 10.9).
Example:
VW 60250 - 10.9
The design guidelines acc. to Section 4.1.3 must be complied with.
Combining bolts and nuts
Pairs of bolts and nuts must be selected such that the property class of the nut matches the property
class of the bolt. The use of nuts with a higher property class as compared to the property class of
the bolt is permissible however (with the exception of a Powerlok bolt or an all-metal nut with locking
element). For example, an Fk 10 nut acc. to DIN EN 20898-2 must be used for an Fk 10.9 screw acc.
to VW 60250. This principle must be applied analogously to combinations of alternative materials,
e.g., as shown in Table 3 and Table 4.
Bolts and stud bolts
–
Due to their superior functional characteristics, screws in the form of full-thread screws (AM) or
reduced shank screws (BM, shank diameter ≈ pitch diameter) must be used.
–
Steel screws/bolts must be preferably used in property class 8.8 and property class 10.9.
–
Other restrictions aiming at the reduction of types acc. to VW 60361 have been defined by the
Standardization Team of the Planning Department regarding head shapes, length steps, sur‐
faces, and thread ends. Preference must be given to parts complying with these requirements.
–
Thread runouts and undercuts are described in DIN 76-1.
–
Screws with scrape point acc. to VW 60424 (type SCV) must be avoided if possible in order to
prevent possible damage of the nut thread in the case of angled setting.
–
Weld screws/bolts and studs must always be provided with cutting grooves distributed on the
circumference.
–
Thread projections acc. to DIN 78, no thread projection required for screws with thread ends in
shape W or PFV, since the first thread already provides full support.
4.1.4  
4.1.4.1  
4.1.4.2  
Page 6
VW 01110-1: 2009-02


Table 2 – Standard values for permissible surface pressures (values taken from
VDI 2230-1 in some cases)
Material group
Abbreviated name of material Material number
Standard
Tensile
strength
Rm, min
MPa
Bound‐
ary sur‐
face
pressure
PG MPa
Body panel
DC01
1.0330
DIN EN 10130
270
300
Hot-rolled strip steel
 
TL 1111
320
400
S700MC
1.8974
DIN EN 10149-2
750
900
Unalloyed structural steel
S355JR
1.0045
DIN EN 10025-2
470
710
Low-alloy case hardened
steels
and quenched and tem‐
pered steels
C45EC
1.1192
DIN EN 10263-4
700
(630)a)
34CrNiMo6
1.6582
DIN EN 10083-3
1200
(1080)
16MnCr5
1.7131
DIN EN 10084
1000
(900)
Sintered metal materials
Sint - D30
-
DIN 30910-4
510
450
Austenitic CrNi steels
X5CrNi18-12
1.4303
DIN EN 10088-3
500
630
X5CrNiMo17-12-2
1.4401
510
(460)
X6NiCrTiMoVB25-15-2
1.4980
DIN EN 10269
960
(860)
Cast iron
EN-GJL-150
EN-JL1020
DIN EN 1561
230
900
EN-GJS-400-15U
EN-JS1072
DIN EN 1563
400
700
EN-GJS-500-7U
EN-JS1082
500
(900)
EN-GJS-600-3U
EN-JS1092
600
(1000)
Aluminum
wrought alloys
EN AW-AlSi1MgMn-T6
EN AW-6082
DIN EN 754-2
310
260
EN AW-AlSi1MgMn-T4
EN AW-6082
205
230
EN AW-AlMg4,5Mn0,7-H111 EN AW-5083
270
230
Aluminum
cast alloys
EN AC-AlSi6Cu4-SF
EN AC-45000
DIN EN 1706
150
220
EN AC-AlSi9Cu3(Fe)
EN AC-46000
240
290
EN AC-AlSi7Mg0,3-T6
EN AC-42100
230
380
Magnesium alloys
EN MC-MgAl9Zn1(A)-F-D
EN-MC21120
DIN EN 1753
160
200 b)
EN MC-MgAl6Mn-D
EN-MC21230
190
180 b)
Titanium alloy
TiAl6V4
3.7165.1
DIN 17862
900
890
Die-cast zinc
ZP3
ZP0400
DIN EN 12844
280
20 c)
ZP5
ZP0410
330
a)
Numerical values shown in brackets have not yet been verified. Recommendation: Use of the tensile strength calculated from the
Brinell hardness BHN according to DIN EN ISO 18265.
b)
Only at room temperature (23 °C).
c)
Creep resistance at room temperature.
Page 7
VW 01110-1: 2009-02


Table 3 – Minimum engagement lengths of steel screws relative to the nominal thread
diameter d
Mechanical properties for supporting threads
Minimum engagement length
in mm for screws with
Fk ≤ 10.9
Material
Minimum tensile strength Rm
Minimum Brinell hardness num‐
ber (BHN)a)
Steel, case hardened, quenched
and tempered
1 000 MPa (315 BHN)
0,8 × d
Steel, quenched and tempered,
cold work-hardened
800 MPa (250 BHN)
1,0 × d
Steel, low-alloy and unalloyed
400 MPa (120 BHN)
1,3 × d
Malleable cast iron
550 MPa (180 BHN)
0,9 × d
Spheroidal cast iron
500 MPa (170 BHN)
1,0 × d
Spheroidal cast iron
400 MPa (140 BHN)
1,3 × d
Gray cast iron
250 MPa (210 BHN)
1,3 × d
Al and Mg cast alloys
80 BHN
2,0 × d (Fk 8.8)
2,5 × d (Fk 10.9)
60 BHN
2,7 × d (Fk ≤ 8.8)
Copper zinc alloys
350 MPa
1,3 × d
Sintered metal (Sint - D30)
510 MPa
1,0 × d
NOTE: The minimum engagement lengths correspond to the supporting thread lengths. For fine-
pitch threads, the minimum engagement lengths must be increased by 20%.
a)
Conversion of tensile strength and hardness is only permissible for steel and cast steel.
Table 4 – Minimum engagement lengths of Al screws relative to the nominal thread di‐
ameter d
Mechanical properties for supporting threads
Minimum engagement length
in mm for AL9 screws
acc. to VW 60469
Material
Minimum tensile strength Rm
Minimum Brinell hardness num‐
ber (BHN)
Steel and cast materials
400 MPa
1,0 × d
Al cast alloys
80 BHN
1,3 × d
Mg cast alloys
60 BHN
1,5 × d
NOTE: The minimum engagement lengths correspond to the supporting thread lengths. For fine-
pitch threads, the minimum engagement lengths must be increased by 20%.
Nuts
To ensure adherence to the design principle, sufficient nut height  (stripping resistance) must always
be observed in the selection of the nut. Generally, nuts with a height of 1 × d are required.
4.1.4.3  
Page 8
VW 01110-1: 2009-02


Nut height and strength must be dimensioned so that the testing force is higher than the maximum
possible preload force.
–
Hexagon nuts with flange and a non-metallic locking element acc. to DIN EN 1663 (standard
screw thread) and DIN EN 1666 (fine-pitch thread) must be used preferentially over hexagon
nuts with metallic locking element and flange (except at operational temperatures > 120 °C).
–
Weld nuts in the form of square weld nuts acc. to VW 60449 must be used preferentially. For
high-strength welded joints, provision must be made for flange nuts acc. to VW 60455.
–
Nuts with a locking element must only be used once, because the locking moments decrease
with every installation.
–
Nuts with scrape point must be avoided.
Washers
Washers can be used to reduce the surface pressure, bridge long holes, stabilize the coefficient of
friction, e.g., for painted counter surfaces, and to prevent damage to painted surfaces. However,
flange nuts and flange bolts must be used preferentially. Starting from a conversion ratio of > 2,5 ×
d between the flange diameter and the nominal thread diameter, combined parts must be used pref‐
erentially for economic reasons.
Measures against loosening caused by external forces
In general, measures against loosening are not suited for ensuring maintenance of the preload force.
They are described as special design types in VW 60424, DIN 962, or in product standards.
Geometric measures
Locking serration below the screw head or on the nut flange is only permissible in the form of a ribbed
head. Due to the high head friction influence, these parts must be installed preferentially with angle-
of-rotation control. The final torques can exceed the values stated in VW 01126-2 considerably. The
protection against loosening can only be ensured if the difference in hardness between the rib and
counter surface is at least 40 HV in favor of the rib.
Screws acc. to VW 60559 or metric thread-forming tapping screws acc. to VW 60424 may be used
for captive effect.
Chemical measures
In some cases, microencapsulated adhesives significantly increase the thread coefficients of friction
during assembly. The efficiency of the threaded fastener will be reduced. With newly developed
products (coefficient of friction between 0,12 and 0,16), this effect can be avoided. The effect re‐
garding loosening decreases with increasing operational temperature ≥ 100 °C (for single use, see
DIN 267-27). Microencapsulation does not ensure a reliable process in conjunction with waxed or
greased threads.
Liquid adhesives (e.g., Loctite®) do not ensure a reliable process and must thus be avoided. In special
cases, liquid adhesives – applied in the thread area – can be used in After-Sales Service.
Impermissible measures
Spring-action washers (spring washers, spring lock washers, serrated lock washers, etc.) do not have
a captive effect in the case of installation "to block". This generally applies to property classes 8.8
4.1.4.4  
4.1.4.5  
4.1.4.5.1  
4.1.4.5.2  
4.1.4.5.3  
Page 9
VW 01110-1: 2009-02


and 10.9 specified in VW 60361 and the tightening torques specified in Section 4.1.5. The use of
spring-action washers in these areas is not permissible.
Selecting the assembly tightening procedure
The responsible Design Engineering Department determines and selects the tightening procedure
according to Table 5. Three procedures can be selected:
Assembly beyond the elastic limit:
Angle-of-rotation-controlled, manual "AW11"
or
Below yield point:
Torque-controlled, manual "AD18"
Angle-of-rotation-controlled, manual "AW12"
All other assembly tightening procedures are derived from this procedure.
For standard production assembly, the Production Department can select a higher quality technique
according to the requirements within the respective method (beyond the elastic limit or below the yield
point).
If special cases require a different assembly procedure, (e.g., AD 15), this must be agreed with the
responsible engineering departments (Planning, Quality Assurance, and Production).
The dimensioning of the screw connection and the type of tightening procedure depend on one an‐
other. The decision for (or against) a particular tightening procedure also determines what kind of
stresses the threaded joint is subjected to during assembly.
This results in the screw utilization to be considered in the design:
–
Approx. 100% for tightening procedures beyond the elastic limit
–
> 50% for tightening procedures below the yield point
The symmetrical tolerance must be specified when specifying the assembly method.
Table 5 – Design requirement (minimum functional requirement)
Assembly
tightening procedure
Screw
utilization
(standard value)
in %
Preload force
dispersion
(standard value) a)
in %
Limit deviations
Type of doc‐
umentation
(comments)
Initial
tightening
torque MS
in %
Tightening
torque
MA in %
Tightening an‐
gle of rotation
WA in degrees
Torque-controlled,
manual AD18
> 50
± 35
-
± 15
-
See Table 1
of
VW 01110-2
Angle-of-rotation-con‐
trolled, manual AW11
Approx. 100
± 13
± 15
-
± 15
Angle-of-rotation-con‐
trolled, below the yield
point, manual AW12
> 65
± 16 to ± 25b)
± 15
-
± 15
a)
Based on calculation principles according to VW 01126-1.
b)
Dependent on screw installation hardness.
4.1.5  
Page 10
VW 01110-1: 2009-02
