# VW01155.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 01 19 0 
January 2006 
Vehicle Supply Parts 
Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 
011 55 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
vehicle parts, supply parts, first supply 
 
Page 1 of 8 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
Spielmann, E2ST/4, Tel: 78390 
Kühn 
Tel.: +49-5361-923370 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 12.00 
Preface 
This standard contains a normative appendix that describes the requirements for the preparation of 
material data sheets in the International Material Data System (IMDS). 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Volkswagen standard VW 011 55: 2005-
02 (changes as compared to the last issue are marked by a vertical bar on the left of the modified 
text block): 
- Section 2, paragraph 5: standard edited 
- Section 2, paragraph 7: part operating permit: note on engineering department added 
- Appendix A.6: referenced standards added 
Previous issues 
1988-01, 1999-12, 2000-12, 2004-06, 2005-02 
 
1 
Scope 
This standard specifies the approval of first supply and changes of vehicle supply parts. 
2 
Requirements 
The specifications on drawings and in standards (in particular in-house standards such as 
Technical Supply Specifications "TL", Test Specifications "PV", General Standards "VW") describe 
requirements that must be met by the object being supplied. 
The supplier shall develop an economical maintenance concept considering state of the art 
technology and following Design Guideline KR 000 20; this will include verification and 
documentation of maintainability. 
The supplier is responsible for performing the required tests and providing verification, both for first-
sample releases and technical engineering releases provided that the latter is required by the 
ordering party. 
The exact chemical composition of the materials used together with all substances is subject to 
mandatory documentation. Information referring to this matter shall be given via the International 
Material Data System IMDS (Internet address: http://www.mdsystem.com). 
The EU Safety Data Sheet in accordance with the Hazardous Substances Ordinance is to be 
provided for substances, preparations and products that are classified as "hazardous" acc. to 
European Hazardous Substances Regulations. 
The supplier shall provide recycling concepts (completion of material cycles) or ways of disposal for 
the respective product (see VW 911 02, Supplement 3). Obligations arising from treatment, 
documentation and recycling regulations from sectors outside the automotive industry shall be 
assumed by the supplier. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
VW 011 55: 2006-01 
 
The following applies to objects being supplied that are subject to type approval: The part operating 
permit shall be presented to the Type Approval department by the responsible engineering 
department without delay. 
For release of the supplied object, additional tests such as function and/or driving tests may be 
required prior to supplying for standard production. 
Changes in the supplied object, for example in the design, the material and its composition, 
manufacturing process, prior suppliers and/or the manufacturing location, require the previous 
written consent of the ordering party. All documentation previously referred to must be provided for 
this purpose. 
Requests for consent to such a change shall be submitted in writing to the Procurement 
department of the ordering party stating the drawing number/part number. 
In the event of a change in the supplied object without the prior consent of the ordering party, the 
supplier is liable in accordance with previous agreements for damages resulting to the ordering 
party, be they direct or indirect. 
3 
Referenced standards1 
KR 000 20  
Maintainability Design of Vehicles, Modules, Sub-Assemblies and 
Components 
VW 911 02  
Supplement 3 
Requirements for a Recycling and Processing Concept 
                                                
1 In this section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 


Page 3 
VW 011 55: 2006-01 
 
 
Appendix A (normative) 
Requirement for Material Data Sheets (MDS) in the International 
Material Data System (IMDS) 
A.1 
Aim 
This Appendix defines the acceptance criteria of Volkswagen AG for material data sheets (MDS) 
from the International Material Data System (IMDS). 
Adherence to these rules should avoid 
- problems in the first-sampling process and 
- the supplier having to revise material data sheets after they were rejected by Volkswagen AG. 
A.2 
Scope 
This standard applies to all substances, preparations and products supplied to the customer with 
the vehicle. The data is part of the first-sample test report. It must be available in full at the latest by 
the time of the first-sample test. 
A.3 
Symbols 
 
The red square is the symbol for an assembly (ASSY), sub-assembly (sub-
ASSY) or an individual part. 
If the red square stands for an ASSY, the next level may only contain red squares 
as these represent the parts from which the ASSY is composed. 
 
 
The yellow circle is the symbol for a semifinished product. 
Semifinished products are pre-products that will be subsequently machined. 
Semifinished products can be composed of other semifinished products, therefore 
the yellow circle may occur again in the next level of the structure tree. 
The semifinished symbol shall be used, e.g., for roll stock (carpets), sheet steels 
with a defined thickness, glass mats, blanks. 
 
Two small green circles symbolize materials. 
Materials can be described by other materials or by basic substances 
in the next level. 
A material shall be described in the actual state it will have in the final part 
(e.g. hardened adhesive, baked paint). 
 
This symbol is used for composite and individual materials. 
A blue triangle is the symbol for basic substances. 
Basic substances are not necessarily chemically basic substances, they can also 
be mixtures where there is no need to further differentiate the individual 
components.  
Basic substances may only be allocated to individual materials. 


Page 4 
VW 011 55: 2006-01 
 
Special cases for basic substances: 
─ 
Confidential basic substances (see Section A.4.9) 
─ 
Wildcards (see Section A.4.10) 
A.4 
Rules 
The following scopes shall be checked when accepting material data sheets (MDS): 
─ 
Volkswagen part number 
─ 
Part designation 
─ 
Structure tree (hierarchy) 
─ 
Completeness of the parts scope 
─ 
Material name 
─ 
Trade name 
─ 
Material classification according to VDA 231-106 
─ 
Confidential basic substances 
─ 
Use of wildcards 
─ 
Banned basic substances and basic substances subject to mandatory declaration according to 
VDA 232-101 
─ 
Information on sampling (drawing number, drawing status, supplier code) 
A.4.1 
Part number 
The Volkswagen part number shall be recorded in the "Recipient status data" sheet according to 
VW 010 98. The part number shall be specified left-justified, without blanks and without special 
characters (e.g. periods). 
Reasons for rejection 
─ 
Missing or unknown Volkswagen part number 
─ 
Part number does not conform with Volkswagen requirements 
(deviates from VW 010 98, e.g. supplier part number) 
─ 
Use of one MDS for a number of part numbers, also for various suffixes 
(e.g. the same number for left-hand and right-hand or parts of different colors) 
A.4.2 
Part designation 
The part designation shall be specified as per the Volkswagen drawing or CAD file (the same 
applies to semifinished product numbers). 
Reasons for rejection 
─ 
No part designation 
─ 
Part designation does not conform with Volkswagen requirements 
(e.g. supplier's part designation) 
A.4.3 
Part weight 
Reasons for rejection 
─ 
Deviation in the calculated weight outside the tolerance 


Page 5 
VW 011 55: 2006-01 
 
 
A.4.4 
Structure tree 
The structure tree must be complete, the hierarchy for symbols must be correct. 
Hierarchy  
- Only one type of symbol may appear in each level. 
- Individual parts and semifinished products must be described by materials. 
- The materials shall be allocated the corresponding basic substances. 
- Small parts from extensive ASSYs can be combined in material groups where it is 
practical to do so. 
- Material > 1 g:  
Total (confidential basic substances + wildcards) 
≤ 10% 
 referred to the material, i.e. 90% of the material 
composition must be known. 
Reasons for rejection 
─ 
No material level 
(basic substance appended directly to the part or semifinished product) 
─ 
Use of different symbols in the same level 
─ 
(Confidential basic substances + wildcards) 10% limit exceeded 
Note 
Absence of information on substances (in particular hazardous substances) shall be 
determined by the supplier by means of analyses if necessary. 
A.4.5 
Material name 
The material name shall be entered in the corresponding field either as a standardized abbreviated 
term or written out in full. 
─ 
Specification of the material name is mandatory. 
─ 
The same standards shall be applied to the selection of abbreviated terms as are specified in 
VDA 260 on the marking of materials. 
─ 
Plastics 
ISO 1043 ff 
─ 
Elastomers 
ISO 1629 
─ 
Thermoplastic elastomers 
ISO 18064 
─ 
Wood 
DIN EN 13556 
─ 
The abbreviated terms specified in the following in-house standards shall additionally be 
applied: 
VW 137 50 for surface protection of metal parts, TL 226 for paint coatings used in the vehicle 
interior trim. 
Reasons for rejection 
─ 
No material name 
─ 
Trade name specified as material name 
─ 
Material designations not according to standards 


Page 6 
VW 011 55: 2006-01 
 
A.4.6 
Trade name 
This specification is optional, although desirable to permit clear allocation of materials to basic 
substances. 
Specify as "trade name + serial no." (= default value)  
or as a freely selected trade name. 
Reasons for rejection 
─ 
None, specification desired but optional 
A.4.7 
Material classification according to VDA 231-106 
All materials must be classified according to VDA 231-106. 
Reasons for rejection 
─ 
Classification missing or incorrect 
A.4.8 
Basic substances 
Fixed values shall preferably be used when entering the quantity proportions for basic substances.  
If this is not possible the following maximum tolerances are permissible, always referred to the 
assumed mean value of the basic substance content. These apply to all materials with a weight 
> 1 g. 
Basic substance 
content (mean value):
Maximum permitted 
tolerance 
< 7.5% 
± 1.5% points 
= 7.5% to < 25% 
± 2.5% points 
= 25% 
± 5% points 
Example: 
Basic substance 
content (mean 
value): 
Maximum permitted 
tolerance 
Values to be entered
5.5% 
± 1.5% points 
(4 to 7)% 
17.5% 
± 2.5% points 
(15 to 20)% 
35% 
± 5% points 
(30 to 40)% 
 
 
Reasons for rejection 
─ 
Tolerances exceeded 
─ 
Multiple use of the specification "remainder" 


Page 7 
VW 011 55: 2006-01 
 
 
A.4.9 
Confidential basic substances 
Confidential basic substances are basic substances that are not listed for confidentiality reasons. 
Total (confidential basic substances + wildcards) ≤ 10% of the material. 
Reasons for rejection 
─ 
Indiscriminate use that does not serve to protect recipe secrets 
─ 
10% limit exceeded 
A.4.10 Use of wildcards 
Wildcards are placeholders at basic substance level, for 
─ 
basic substances that could not yet be investigated, 
─ 
basic substances that do not need to be broken down any further (i.e. basic substances that 
are not subject to mandatory declaration and/or are not banned acc. to VDA 232-101), 
─ 
strictly confidential basic substances. 
A wildcard list is displayed in IMDS if "system" is entered in the field CAS no. on the "Basic 
substance" sheet. 
Further requirements: 
─ 
Documentation for strictly confidential basic substances shall be held for 30 years by the 
supplier  
─ 
The wildcard "not yet specified" may only be used for sampling during the development phase, 
not for first-sample testing 
─ 
The wildcards "flame retardant", "pigment portion", "impact-resistance modifier" and 
"plasticizer" shall not be used due to legislation in preparation 
─ 
Total (confidential basic substances + wildcards) ≤ 10% of the material (> 1 g) 
Reasons for rejection 
─ 
Use of wildcards that are no longer valid 
─ 
Wildcard "not yet specified" used in first-sample testing 
─ 
10% limit (confidential basic substances + wildcards) exceeded in materials (> 1 g). 
A.4.11 Information on sampling 
Information on sampling can be found by choosing the "View" menu command in the "Recipient 
status data" sheet: 
─ 
Drawing number 
─ 
Drawing status (version/date) 
─ 
Supplier code (DUNS number if available) 


Page 8 
VW 011 55: 2006-01 
 
Reasons for rejection 
─ 
No drawing number 
─ 
No drawing status 
─ 
No supplier code 
A.5 
Additional information 
Material supplier 
Specification of the material supplier is desirable, but not mandatory. 
Page "Recycled Material Information" 
Incomplete information in this section will currently not result in the data sheet being rejected. 
Preparation of material data sheets 
For the latest information see 
IMDS/Öffentliche Seiten/Verbund/Volkswagen/Aktuelles& Hilfen/Arbeitsanleitung 
or 
http://www.volkswagen-umwelt.de/lieferanten  
A.6 
Referenced standards2 
TL 226 
Paint Coating on Materials Used in the Vehicle Interior Trim; Requirements 
VW 010 98 
Part Number System 
VW 137 50 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts 
VDA 231-106 
Material Classification in Motor Vehicle Construction 
VDA 232-101 
Global Automotive Declarable Substance List 
VDA 260 
Motor Vehicle Components; Marking of Materials 
DIN EN 13556 
Round and Sawn Timber – Nomenclature of Timbers Used in Europe 
ISO 1043 
Plastics -Symbols and Abbreviated Terms 
ISO 1629 
Rubber and Latices – Nomenclature 
ISO 18064 
Thermoplastic Elastomers; Nomenclature and Abbreviated Terms 
                                                
2 In this section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
