# VW01129.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 01712 
January 2007 
Limit Values for Coefficients of Friction 
Mechanical Joining Elements with Metric ISO Thread 
VW 
01129 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: coefficients of friction, limit values, mechanical joining elements, metric ISO 
threads 
 
 
Page 1 of 4 
 
Normung/Standards (E2TC, 1733) 
 
 
 
Werthe 
2-NQ-K/4 
Tel.:+49-511-798-5178 
Kühn 
Tel: +49-5361-9-23370 
Terlinden 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 09.06 
Contents 
Page 
1 
Scope.................................................................................................................................. 1 
2 
Coefficients of friction.......................................................................................................... 1 
2.1 
Total coefficient of friction ................................................................................................... 2 
2.2 
Thread and head coefficients of friction .............................................................................. 2 
3 
Test ..................................................................................................................................... 3 
3.1 
First sampling, standard-production monitoring .................................................................. 3 
3.2 
Release of new surface coatings, problem analyses .......................................................... 3 
3.3 
Evaluation of the coefficient-of-friction test.......................................................................... 3 
3.4 
Test of loosening at elevated temperature.......................................................................... 4 
4 
Terms .................................................................................................................................. 4 
5 
Referenced standards......................................................................................................... 4 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Volkswagen standard VW 01129, 
2001-05: 
─ 
Standard completely revised 
Previous issues 
2001-05 
1 
Scope 
This standard applies to mechanical joining elements with metric ISO thread and flat head bearing 
surface. 
2 
Coefficients of friction 
Coefficient of friction, tightening torque and preload force interact with each other (see VW 01126-1 
and VW 01126-2). The coefficient of friction is affected by the material combination and the surface 
protection type. In order to achieve a uniform threading of joints, the variation range of the 
permissible friction coefficient must be restricted and the position of the mean value must be 
designated. Suitable lubrication (integrated in the surface protective coating or subsequently 
applied) can meet these specifications (see VW 01110 and VW 13750). 
The coefficients of friction determined may deviate from the coefficients of friction which arise in 
actual application due to various marginal conditions. 
In the case of special design parts, where the determination of the coefficient of friction is not 
possible, post-treatment must be carried out in such a manner that corresponding parts without 
special design would achieve this value. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate.In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
Numerical notation according to ISO practice (see VW 01000). 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
VW 01129: 2007-01 
 
As the coefficients of friction are influenced by the tightening speed, the measurements shall be 
performed under equal conditions. For this purpose, two-stage tightening at a tightening speed of 
200 min-1 as well as final tightening at 20 min-1 are prescribed for the coefficient-of-friction 
measurement. For further specifications see VW 01131. 
2.1 
Total coefficient of friction 
The total coefficient of friction µtot is determined by the coefficients of friction in the screw thread 
and below the screw head or nut bearing surface. The permissible tolerances apply to both the 
total coefficient of friction as well as the individual coefficients of friction of the screw head or nut 
bearing surface µb and the coefficient of friction in the screw thread µth. It is defined as follows: 
0,09 ≤ µ ≤ 0,15 
With a maximum permissible measuring uncertainty of ∆µ=0,01, this results in the following range 
of coefficients of friction which is to to be agreed upon separately as acceptance requirement: 
0,08 ≤ µ ≤ 0,16 
(See also DIN EN ISO 14253-1 and VDA Sheet 235-101). 
A mean value of the measurement series of µtot = 0,12 is desirable. 
The total coefficient of friction is defined as follows: 
b
tot
D
d
P
F
T
5,0
577
,0
2
2 +
−
=
π
µ
 
Here, the following shall apply to a plane, ring-shaped bearing surface: 
2
0
h
b
d
D
D
+
=
 
2.2 
Thread and head coefficients of friction 
The thread coefficients of friction are defined as follows: 
2
577
,0
2
d
P
F
Tth
th
π
µ
−
=
 
2
577
,0
2
d
P
F
Tthl
thl
π
µ
+
=
 
for tightening 
for loosening 
The coefficients of friction of the nut and screw-head bearing surface are defined as follows: 
F
D
T
b
b
b
×
=
5,0
µ
 


Page 3 
VW 01126: 2007-01 
 
NOTE 1: Higher thread coefficients of friction cause a less efficient screw utilization due to the 
increase in the comparison stress; this results in a lower preload force also in the case of screw 
assembly beyond the elastic limit. 
NOTE 2:  Falling below the thread coefficient of friction of µth=0,08 results in a reduced self-locking 
capability. As an example: µth=0,06 for M6 screws results in a complete loss of the self-locking 
capability in the thread (Figure 1). 
NOTE 3: The temperature dependence of the coefficient of friction shall be observed. Organic anti-
corrosion coatings as well as additional anti-friction coatings or integrated lubricants such as PTFE 
or PE may result in a considerable reduction of the coefficient of friction at higher temperatures. 
Under extreme conditions, self-loosening of connections with lead angles > 3 degrees and smooth 
friction partners free of pores may occur at temperatures > 80 °C. 
 
Figure 1: Ranges of self-locking in metric ISO thread 
3 
Test 
3.1 
First sampling, standard-production monitoring  
In the case of first sampling or standard-production monitoring, a determination of the coefficients 
of friction according to DIN EN ISO 16047 is sufficient. 
If not otherwise agreed upon, the nominal dimensions shall be used in the calculation formulae 
on principle. 
3.2 
Release of new surface coatings, problem analyses 
Tests required for the release of new surface coating systems, of new screw manufacturers or of 
new coating companies as well as for the evaluation of special threaded joints under special 
operating conditions or for problem analysis shall be performed on principle according to the 
conditions specified in VW 01131. Essential parts of VDA Sheet 235-203 correspond to VW 01131. 
If not otherwise agreed upon, the nominal dimensions shall be used in the calculation formulae 
on principle (for terms see Section 4). 
3.3 
Evaluation of the coefficient-of-friction test 
The following applies to evaluation of the results: 
M 1 4 x 1 ,5
M 1 2 x 1 ,5
M 1 2
M 1 0
M 1 0 x 1
M 8
M 8 x 1
M 6
0
0 ,0 1
0 ,0 2
0 ,0 3
0 ,0 4
0 ,0 5
0 ,0 6
0 ,0 7
Gewindereibungszahl
0
0 ,5
1
1 ,5
2
2 ,5
3
3 ,5
4
Steigungswinkel [°]
D ie  B a lk e n m a x im a  m a rk ie re n  d ie  G e w in d e re ib u n g s z a h l,
b e i d e r d ie  S e lb s th e m m u n g  im  G e w in d e  a u fg e h o b e n  w ird
 
Thread coefficient of friction 
The bar maxima indicate the thread friction coefficient at which the 
thread self-locking capability is lost. 
Lead angle [°] 


Page 4 
VW 01129: 2007-01 
 
In the case of 10 randomly chosen specimens, all total and individual coefficients of friction 
including the limits shall lie within the range 0,09 to 0,15 (0,08 to 0,16 considering the maximum 
permissible measuring uncertainty). If a value is outside this range, a second random sample may 
be tested with similar scope. In this second random sample, 10 measured values must fall within 
the range of tolerance. 
3.4 
Test of loosening at elevated temperature 
In addition to the coefficient-of-friction requirements specified in Section 3.3, a determination of the 
loosening behavior at elevated temperature according to VW 01131 is required for the release test. 
For this purpose, exclusively the M6 sems proposed in this standard must be used. In the case of 6 
randomly chosen specimens, the total coefficients of friction determined in all loosening-at-
elevated-temperature tests shall meet the acceptance requirement µtot ≥ 0,06. 
4 
Terms 
The following symbols and their nomenclature are valid for the application of this standard acc. to 
DIN EN IS0 16047. 
d 
Nominal thread diameter 
d2 
Pitch diameter of the screw thread 
dh  
Diameter of the through-hole of the washer or bearing plate (nominal value) 
Db  
Effective diameter for the friction torque in the screw-head or nut bearing surface 
(theoretical or measured value) 
Do  
Outer diameter of the bearing surface dw min or dk min (see product standards) 
F  
Preload force 
P 
Flank lead 
T 
Tightening torque 
Tb 
Friction torque in the bearing surface 
Tth  
Thread torque in tightening direction 
Tthl  
Thread torque in loosening direction 
µb  
Coefficient of friction in the nut or screw-head bearing surface 
µth 
Coefficient of friction in the thread in tightening direction 
µthl 
Coefficient of friction in the thread in loosening direction 
µtot 
Total coefficient of friction 
5 
Referenced standards1 
VW 01110 
Threaded Joints; Design, Assembly and Process Assurance 
VW 01126-1 
Joining; Tightening Torques for Screw Connections 
VW 01126-2 
Joining; Tightening Torques for Screw Assembly beyond the Elastic Limit 
VW 01131 
Determination of Coefficients of Friction; Practice-Oriented Testing 
VW 13750 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts 
DIN EN IS0 16047 
Fasteners - Torque/Clamp Force Testing 
DIN EN ISO 14253-1 
Geometric Product Specifications (GPS), Inspection by Measurement of 
Workpieces and Measuring Equipment - Part 1: Decision Rules for 
Proving Conformance or Non-Conformance with Specifications 
VDI 2230-1 
Systematic Calculation of High Duty Bolted Joints 
VDA 235-101 
Lubrication of Threaded Mechanical Joining Elements (only available in 
German) 
VDA 235-203 
Threading Behavior; Coefficients of friction; Practice- and Mounting-
Oriented Testing (only available in German) 
                                                
1 In this Section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
