# VW01058.pdf

 
Group Standard 
VW 01058
Issue 2008-12
Class. No.: 
02245 
Descriptors:  
type of lettering, drawing lettering, drawing specification, drawing note, lettering, drawing, usage restriction, supplier 
protection 
 
 
Check standard for current issue prior to usage. The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. Numerical 
notation acc. to ISO practice.  
Page 1 of 49 
This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature. 
Technical Responsibility 
Standards 
 
EKTC/4  Hans-Jürgen Kühn    
Phone: +49-5361-9-23370 
EKTC/4  Hans-Jürgen Kühn 
Phone: +49-5361-9-23370 
EKTC 
Manfred Terlinden 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior permission of a Standards department within the Volkswagen 
Group. 
Contract partners shall obtain the standard only through the B2B supplier platform at www.vwgroupsupply.com. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
 
vwstandard-2007-07 
 
 
 
Engineering Drawings 
Lettering 
 
 
Contents 
Page 
1 
Scope................................................................................................................................3 
2 
Requirements....................................................................................................................3 
3 
Drawing frames, format sizes ............................................................................................4 
3.1 
Format sizes for standard production drawings .................................................................4 
3.2 
Oversize formats ...............................................................................................................5 
3.3 
Reading position of the drawing ........................................................................................5 
4 
Drawing field .....................................................................................................................7 
4.1 
General information...........................................................................................................7 
4.2 
Indication of units and symbols..........................................................................................8 
4.3 
Specifications in prescribed fields......................................................................................9 
4.3.1 
Notes field .........................................................................................................................9 
4.3.2 
Field for permissible deviations and surfaces ....................................................................9 
4.3.3 
Field for references ......................................................................................................... 11 
4.4 
Specifications in the drawing field.................................................................................... 12 
4.4.1 
Marking of parts............................................................................................................... 12 
4.4.2 
Numbering....................................................................................................................... 13 
5 
Specifications in the title block......................................................................................... 19 
5.1 
Basic title block................................................................................................................ 20 
5.1.1 
Part number .................................................................................................................... 20 
5.1.2 
Designation (title) ............................................................................................................ 21 
5.1.3 
Drawings with several sheets .......................................................................................... 22 
5.1.4 
Safety documentation...................................................................................................... 23 
5.1.5 
Code letters, code symbols ............................................................................................. 23 
5.2 
Field for weight data ........................................................................................................ 24 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
VW 01058 2008-12 
 
5.3 
Material field....................................................................................................................26 
5.3.1 
Material field....................................................................................................................27 
5.3.2 
Material treatment field ....................................................................................................31 
5.3.3 
Semi-finished product field ..............................................................................................32 
5.3.4 
Surface protection field....................................................................................................34 
5.4 
Type approval field ..........................................................................................................35 
5.5 
Change block ..................................................................................................................35 
5.5.1 
Newly created drawings...................................................................................................36 
5.5.2 
Changed drawings...........................................................................................................37 
6 
Converting supplier drawings into Volkswagen AG drawings with supplier protection 
(usage restriction)............................................................................................................42 
7 
Referenced documents....................................................................................................44 
Appendix A (informative)...............................................................................................................46 
 
Changes 
─ 
The following changes have been made as compared to Volkswagen standard VW 01058: 
2004-05 (major changes as compared to the last issue are marked by a vertical bar on the left 
of the modified text block): 
─ 
Graphical representation of the drawing frame and text macros coordinated with VW 01014 
─ 
Section 1: Scope expanded  
─ 
Section 2: Requirements added 
─ 
Section 3.2: Oversize formats changes, note on microfilming removed 
─ 
Section 4, page 17: Notes 1 to 3 added 
─ 
Section 4.1: Note added regarding country language for foreign affiliated companies; note 
expanded regarding exceptions for font size 
─ 
Section 4.4.1: Note on VW 10500 added 
─ 
Section 5.1.3, drawings with several sheets: Section revised with respect to current KVS 
methodology 
─ 
Section 5.1.4: Note removed regarding D symbol for standard parts 
─ 
Figures 5, 7, 9, 10, 17 and 19: Notes on German and English text requirements added 
─ 
Section 5.2, weight specifications: Note on calculated weight added 
─ 
Section 5, Figure 21 "Block entries": Note added regarding restricted usage of company logos 
in the "gezeichnet/drawn" block 
─ 
Section 5.3.1, Materials: Note added regarding specification of material numbers for iron 
materials 
─ 
Section 5.3.2: DIN 6773 replaced by ISO 15787 
─ 
Section 5.5.1, text on Figure 68: Note on microfilm sheet archiving removed 
─ 
Section 5.5.2, text on Figures 76 and 77: Note on microfilm sheet archiving and enlargement 
removed 
─ 
Section 5.5.2, page 43 and 44 - changes for drawings with several sheets: Adapted to current 
KVS methodology 
─ 
Section 5.5.3: Prototype drawings removed 
─ 
Section 6: Text changed and shortened 
─ 
Appendix A added 
Previous issues 
1963-07; 1978-06; 1999-05; 2002-07; 2004-05 


Page 3 
VW 01058 2008-12 
 
1 
Scope 
This standard applies to the lettering of objects in technical drawings and other technical 
documents. This standard also specifies the use of drawing frames for standard production 
drawings of the Volkswagen Group as well as standard production drawings with supplier 
protection (usage restriction). It complies, in as far as possible, with the international rules of 
technical drawing and is expanded for the particular requirements of the Volkswagen Group. 
The figures given in this standard are examples to illustrate the relevant rule. They are 
complete only to the extent that they represent the described situation. The represented 
drawing frames and text macros are subject to the latest issue of VW 01014. The part 
numbers and standard part numbers mentioned in the drawing are examples without any 
reference to real part numbers or standard part numbers. 
2 
Requirements 
In general, for standard production drawings of the Volkswagen Group, the drawing frames 
according to VW 01014 with the integrated VOLKSWAGEN AG copyright field in the drawing title 
block must be used (see Section 5, Figure 21, copyright field). 
The usage of these drawing frames ensures the reservation of all rights for the Volkswagen Group. 
Standard production drawings of the Volkswagen Group must not contain any information 
regarding the supplier (e.g. supplier copyright notes, supplier logos), even if created by a parts 
supplier. 
NOTE 1: If in exceptional cases (e.g. to facilitate the assignment of Volkswagen part or position 
numbers and supplier part numbers for extensive ASSYs) it is absolutely necessary to name the 
supplier number on a standard production drawing of the Volkswagen Group, these supplier 
numbers must not contain any reference to the supplier's identity. 
NOTE 2: Global sourcing (world-wide procurement) is only possible with these drawings. 
 
Exceptions are drawings of supply parts with contain elements protected by patents and 
copyrights. In this case, with the consent of the copyright owner (supplier) and by using the title 
block according to VW 01014, NO-A2, a Volkswagen drawing with supplier protection can be 
created from the supplier drawing (see Section 6, Converting supplier drawings into Volkwagen AG 
drawings). 
The question as to whether there is supplier protection or not is determined in contract negotiations 
between the responsible Procurement Departments of the Volkswagen Group and the supplier. 
The person responsible for the component in the respective engineering department must verify 
that the drawing complies with the contractural agreements. 
NOTE 3: Global sourcing is not possible with these drawings. 
For examples of title blocks for standard production drawings of the Volkswagen AG as well as 
supplier protected drawings that meet and do not meet the standard, see Appendix A. 


Page 4 
VW 01058 2008-12 
 
3 
Drawing frames, format sizes 
3.1 
Format sizes for standard production drawings 
The drawing must be produced in the smallest possible drawing format that still provides the 
necessary clarity and resolution. Table 1 shows the preferred sizes for trimmed sheets as well as 
the drawing area, selected from ISO A series (see ISO 216). 
 
Table 1 – Formats of trimmed sheets and drawing areas 
 
Dimensions in mm
Trimmed (T) 
Drawing area 
Designation 
See Figure 
a1 
1) 
b1 
1) 
a2 
± 0,5 
b2 
± 0,5 
A0 
1 
841 
1 189 
821 
1 159 
A1 
1 
594 
841 
574 
811 
A2 
1 
420 
594 
400 
564 
A3 
1 
297 
420 
277 
390 
NOTE: For formats > A0, see ISO 216 
1) See ISO 216 for tolerances 
 
Dimensions in mm
Figure 1 – Formats A0 to A3 
 


Page 5 
VW 01058 2008-12 
 
3.2 
Oversize formats 
Drawings which are larger than A0 format are considered oversize format. For the CAD systems 
used at Volkswagen, the oversize formats must be selected from Table 2. 
Other, deviating sizes must be created without template but using the text macros according to 
VW 01014. This, however, is to be avoided if possible. 
 
Table 2 – Oversize formats 
 
Dimensions in mm
Format 
Final format 
A0 plus 
841 x 1 682 
A0 plus 1 
841 x 2 378 
A0 plus 2 
841 x 3 567 
A0 plus 3 
841 x 4 756 
A0 plus 4 
841 x 5 945 
Strip formats may also be advantageous for certain space requirements. They are produced by 
combining the dimensions of the short side of an A format (e.g. A3) with the long side of another, 
longer A format (e.g. A1). 
This results in a new format, e.g. with the code A3.1; see Figure 2. The format designation must be 
specified in the lower right-hand corner of the title block. 
mm  
 
 
 
841
A0  
594
A1
A1.0  
420
A2
A2.1
A2.0  
297
A3
A3.2
A3.1
A3.0  
 
0 
 
420
594
 
841 
 
1 189 mm
Figure 2 – Format system, overview 
3.3 
Reading position of the drawing 
The drawing consists of the drawing field and the title block. When the drawing is held in reading 
position (title block on the right), it must be possible to read the text and dimensions from the 
bottom or from the right; see Figure 3. This also applies if, in exceptional cases, the landscape 
format is used as the portrait format; see Figure 4. 


Page 6 
VW 01058 2008-12 
 
Figure 3 
Figure 4 
The right-angled coordinate system (grid), created from the zero and grid lines, for defining the 
form and position of individual parts, assemblies, and units in the vehicle is done in parallel to the 
drawing border. For grid and work lines, see VW 01052. 
Drawing field 
Title block 


Page 7 
VW 01058 2008-12 
 
4 
Drawing field 
4.1 
General information 
Entries in the drawing field are made with vertical standard lettering according to 
DIN EN ISO 3098-2, font type B. Contrary to this, a similar font can be selected in a CAD system if 
the system in question cannot display the above-mentioned font. The lettering size for 
part numbers and designations of section, detail, view, work lines, 
work planes, and functional datum planes is 
5 mm 
and for dimensions and other entries 
3,5 mm 
In exceptional cases (e.g. standard part drawings, diagrams, machine-written tables, 
change tables within the drawing title block), it is permissible to use a lettering size of 
2,5 mm instead of 3,5 mm if there is a lack of space. 
The lettering must be short and clear, contain all necessary information, and be parallel to the 
horizontal drawing border, to the extent possible, when viewed in the reading position. Texts 
generated with a CAD system that provides a multilingual text catalog must be established in 
German and English using the DoLittle system. Existing texts (text macros), which are already 
contained in VW 01014 in German/English, are provided in the respective CAD libraries and must 
be adopted 1:1. The part numbers and German titles must conform with the TEIVON system (Part 
Number Assignment Online). 
Drawings which are limited to scopes solely used by foreign affiliated companies can be created in 
the respective language of that country but including the German translation. 
The closed character of the drawing must not be disturbed by scattered entries. Information added 
to a dimension or graphical representation must therefore be written combined in a block that is 
spaced a distance away and connected to the respective location with datum lines and reference 
arrows. Entries of a general nature are made under "Notes" in the lower left part of the drawing 
field; see Figure 5. 
Sentences begin with capital letters, while individual words, keyword-type information, incomplete 
sentences, or brief notes begin with a small letter provided the first word is not a word usually 
spelled with a capital first letter. 
Examples: 
welded all around  
after knurling 
without surface protection 
only for part ..... 
up to thread ∅ 
optional design 
weld broached 
cold-headed 
 
For new or modified parts, only drawings are available in the early development stage, but no parts 
lists or releases for procurement or acceptance. D r a w i n g s  for parts that are subject to technical 
engineering approval with regard to functioning, design, safety, and type approval must therefore 
be marked with the note "Technical engineering approval required" – code number NO-F5 
according to VW 01014; see Figure 5. 


Page 8 
VW 01058 2008-12 
 
 
Figure 5 
 
4.2 
Indication of units and symbols 
In letterings, the associated units are specified behind numerical representations that are not part 
of a standard designation. This is because the representations not only include dimensions, but 
also other variables. 
─ 
The unit must not be changed within a specified numerical value. 
Example: 50 kg ± 0,05 kg 
 or (50 ± 0,05) kg 
 instead of 
 50 kg ± 50 g 
Exception: 15° ± 30′ 
The unit must be selected such that the value can be expressed with as few digits as possible. 
Example: 2 kW  
instead of 
 2 000 W 
Percent values to reflect deviations must be avoided. 
 
─ 
The unit is to be placed only once in lists, namely behind the last number. 
Example: 80, 100, and 150 mm 
Number values linked by mathematical symbols "+", "-", "x", and ":" must have the unit after 
each number. 
Example: 6 mm x 10 mm x 30 mm  
or  10 l ± 15 l - 2,5 l 
If the symbols "+", "–", or "±" are used to indicate tolerance, the notation must be as follows: 
(30 ± 2) m/s 
 or 
 (80 + 5) °C. 
Ranges must be written out with "to." The mathematical symbol "..." is permissible, but the 
symbol "-"  
or "÷" 
is not permissible. 
Example: 250 Nm to 300 Nm 
 or 250 Nm...300 Nm 
The "°" symbol (degree as temperature) is part of the unit and must be placed directly next to 
the unit without a gap. 
Example: 80 °C or (80 ± 5) °C 
"°C" must not be used in formulas and combined units; Kelvin (K) must be used for this 
purpose. 
Example: kJ/  (kg K) 
In the real drawing, all texts must be displayed in German and English! 


Page 9 
VW 01058 2008-12 
 
─ 
In the interest of international understanding, the abbreviations "max." and "min." are to be 
used instead of "maximum dimension" and "minimum dimension" for specifications that must 
not be exceeded or fallen below. The abbreviation must precede the number in written texts. 
Example: 
min. 400 min-1, 
 min. ∅ 10 mm 
or 
min. 25 Nm/s. 
In dimensions that relate to the graphical representation, "max." and "min." follow the 
numerical value. 
Example: R 1,5 max. 
Mathematical symbols and specifications such as diameter, radius, sphere, and square are 
placed in front of the number. 
Example:  ≥ 12 mm 
or 
≥ 60° 
∅ 20 mm 
or 
Diameter 20 mm 
─ 
The preferred notation for fractions is in the form of decimal fractions. If proper or improper 
fractions are unavoidable, the horizontal fraction line may be used. 
Example: 3
2  
It is also permissible to use the slash "/" or colon ":" in order to save space. 
Example:  2/3, 2:3. 
The part following the slash or colon must remain unambiguous. 
Example: kJ/(kgK), kJ:(kgK). 
─ 
Symbols and/or abbreviations may only be used if there is no risk of mistakes or 
misinterpretations. 
For examples of entries that are directly associated with the dimensioning, see VW 01054. 
Units 
DIN 1301-1 
Mathematical symbols 
DIN 1302 
Symbols 
DIN 1304-1 
Thermodynamics 
DIN 1345 
Writing and typesetting of formulae 
DIN 1338 
Physical quantities and equations 
DIN 1313 
4.3 
Specifications in prescribed fields 
4.3.1 
Notes field 
Entries that are not tied to a specific location or entries that are best combined are made here. 
Example: Production, test, acceptance, and installation conditions; references to regulations; 
supply specifications; Component Performance Specifications (LAH); identification; and 
connecting and mating parts; see Figure 5. 
4.3.2 
Field for permissible deviations and surfaces 
The permissible deviations of dimensions that may be produced with usual workshop accuracy 
must be assigned to the nominal-dimension ranges of the table for general tolerances and entered 
in the "finished" column. Tolerances of functional or fit dimensions must be specified beside the 
nominal dimension; see Figure 6. 


Page 10 
VW 01058 2008-12 
 
Figure 6 
The "raw" column (see Figure 7) is provided for entry of process-related accuracy values for 
pressed parts, injection-molded parts, and forgings with surfaces that are left untreated. The 
relevant standards concerning "General tolerances" must be observed in these cases. 
Dimensional deviations for treated surfaces are entered in the "finished" column. 
 
 
Figure 7 
In the real drawing, all texts must be displayed in German and English! 
