# vw13750.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 20 0; 02 64 2 
February 2005 
Surface Protection of Metal Parts 
Surface Protection Types, Codes 
VW 
137 50 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
corrosion, rust protection, surface protection, metal, protection type, 
code, corrosion protection 
 
Page 1 of 23 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-32/2 
Koeppen 
Tel:-25803 
Laudien 
Dr. Eisenberg 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsuppy.com”. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.05 
Contents 
Page 
1 
Scope.................................................................................................................................. 2 
2 
Description .......................................................................................................................... 3 
2.1 
Code structure..................................................................................................................... 3 
2.2 
Example of description........................................................................................................ 3 
3 
Requirements...................................................................................................................... 3 
3.1 
General requirements ......................................................................................................... 3 
3.2 
Drawing specifications ........................................................................................................ 4 
3.3 
Weldability........................................................................................................................... 4 
3.4 
Agents impairing wetting ability........................................................................................... 4 
3.5 
Friction behavior.................................................................................................................. 5 
3.6 
Zinc coatings ....................................................................................................................... 5 
3.7 
Screws, nuts, threaded parts and shaped parts.................................................................. 5 
3.8 
Commercial surface protection types.................................................................................. 5 
3.9 
Parts without surface protection.......................................................................................... 6 
3.9.1 
Joining elements ................................................................................................................. 6 
3.9.2 
Other parts (e.g. sheets) ..................................................................................................... 6 
3.10 
Assignment of surface protection types and codes............................................................. 6 
4 
Referenced standards....................................................................................................... 12 
A.1 
Comparison of “not for new design”/“for new design” ....................................................... 14 
A.2 
Surface protection types without code .............................................................................. 15 
A.3 
Surface protection types according to VDA test sheet 235-104 and VW 137 50.............. 15 
A.4 
Invalid Ofl descriptions ...................................................................................................... 16 
Changes 
The 
following 
changes 
have 
been 
made 
as 
compared 
to 
Volkswagen 
standard 
VW 137 50, 1999-04: 
 
Surface protection type “phosphated, passivated” (code b101) stipulated. 
 
Surface protection type “phosphated, silver gray (for internal applications)” (code b111) 
stipulated. 
 
Surface protection type “phosphated, yellow glazing, for internal applications (water-based 
paint)” (code b112) stipulated. 
 
Surface protection type “manganese phosphated” (code b130) restricted in terms of the 
possible applications (no longer permitted for new design of joining elements, replacement is 
b140). 
 
Cr(VI)-free surface protection types “electrolytically zinc-coated” (codes c341, c641, c342, 
c642, c343, c643, c347, c647, c696 and c697) added. 
 
Cr(VI)-containing surface protection types “electrolytically zinc-coated” (codes c350, c650, 
c351, c651, c355, c360, c660, c683, c385, c685) restricted in terms of the possible 
applications (no longer permitted for new designs, for replacement see Table A.1). 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
Ausdrucke unterliegen nicht dem Änderungsdienst
Printed copies are uncontrolled


Page 2 
VW 137 50: 2005-02 
 
 
Surface protection type “bright chrome-plated, with microcracks” (code f320) removed 
(replaced by Ofl-f350). 
 
Layer thicknesses for surface protection types “tin-coated” (code g...) stipulated. 
 
Surface protection types for electrolytically deposited Al and Al/Mg alloy coatings (codes q600, 
q605, q610, q615) added. 
 
Cr(VI)-containing surface protection types “Zn/Fe alloy coated” (codes r600, r605, r610, r620 
and r630) restricted in terms of the possible applications (no longer permitted for new designs, 
for replacement see Table A.1). 
 
Cr(VI)-free surface protection types “Zn/Fe alloy coated” (codes r301 and r302) added. 
 
Surface protection types “Zn/Ni alloy coated” (codes r640, r650, r660, r665, r670, r675) 
restricted in terms of the possible applications (no longer permitted for new designs, for 
replacement see Table A.1). 
 
Cr(VI)-free surface protection types “Zn/Ni alloy coated” (codes r642, r643, r649, r672, r673 
and r677) added. 
 
Cr(VI)-free surface protection types “duplex coated” (codes s611, s617, s621 and s627) 
added. 
 
Cr(VI)-containing surface protection types “duplex coated” (codes s610, s615, s620 and s625) 
restricted in terms of the possible applications (no longer permitted for new designs, for 
replacement see Table A.1). 
 
Surface protection types “zinc flake coatings” (codes t300, t310, t320, t345, t600, t620 and 
t645) restricted in terms of the possible applications (no longer permitted for new designs, for 
replacement see Table A.1). 
 
Cr(VI)-free surface protection types “zinc flake coatings” (codes t602, t611, t615 and t647) 
added. 
 
Surface protection type “black finished” (code u110) re-included. 
 
Cr(VI)-containing surface protection type “chromated” (code v110) restricted in terms of the 
possible applications (no longer permitted for new designs, replaced by Ofl-v111). 
 
Cr(VI)-free surface protection type “Cr(VI)-free passivated” (code v111) added. 
 
Surface protection type “anodized” (code w650) removed. 
 
Surface protection types “coil-anodized” (codes w660 and w670) restricted in terms of the 
possible applications (no longer permitted for new designs). 
 
Surface protection types “anodized” (codes w180, w680, w690, w695) added. 
 
Surface protection type “multi-layer coated, medium protection” (code x310) removed. 
 
Surface protection types “multi-layer coated, heavy protection” (codes x611, x612 and x613) 
added. 
 
Surface protection types “zinc-dust paint coating” (codes y600 and y650) re-included. 
 
Specifications for parts without surface protection (Section 3.9) formulated in more detail. 
 
Comparison list of VDA/Volkswagen descriptions (Table A.3) included. 
Previous issues 
1953-06; 1954-07; 1956-10; 1958-04; 1959-03; 1959-06; 1963-03; 1963-05; 1966-06; 1966-10; 
1967-05; 1967-11; 1969-10; 1970-11; 1971-12; 1972-02; 1974-08; 1975-06; 1976-07; 1980-09; 
1983-10; 1986-10; 1989-12; 1991-11; 1994-10; 1999-04 
1 
Scope 
This standard applies to the identification of general surface protection types of vehicle parts and 
units in drawings and technical documentation. Separate technical supply specifications 
(TL standards) apply to special surface protection types without identification by surface code (see 
Appendix A.1). 


Page 3 
VW 137 50: 2005-02 
 
2 
Description 
2.1 
Code structure 
The abbreviation for surface protection ('Ofl-' from the German word for 'surface') is followed by a 
code with four characters, taken from Table 2. 
 
 
2.2 
Example of description 
Surface protection: electrolytic zinc alloy coating, transparent Cr(VI)-free passivated, with lubricant 
treatment, heavy protection, according to TL 244. 
VW 137 50 – Ofl-r645 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
General requirements 
The vehicle parts and units are categorized according to their corrosion load and assigned to 
a protection class with grade (according to Table 1) by the responsible Engineering Department 
upon agreement with the Volkswagen AG Central Laboratory (K-QS-32) and/or the AUDI AG 
Test Laboratory (I/GQ-322). 
Table 1 – Classification of vehicle parts 
Vehicle part categories 
Corrosion load 
Protection class 
Parts with the following features: 
(a) non-visible in installed condition, 
(b) corrosion protection serves only 
as protection for transportation, 
(c) corrosion protection is not needed 
for proper performance. 
Minor load. 
Light protection 
grade 1 
Interior and exterior components 
in a protected installation position. 
Not for joining elements (for exceptions 
see VW 011 10). 
Medium load. 
Medium protection 
grade 3 
Parts that are subjected to direct open-air 
weathering (e.g. chassis, engine, 
transmission). 
Parts that are visible in installed condition 
(also seen from the vehicle underside). 
Parts with the following features: 
(a) corrosion protection is required 
to ensure proper performance and 
(b) use in the interior and exterior due 
to reduction of material types policy, 
e.g. joining elements. 
Heavy load. 
Heavy protection 
grade 6 
Finish, appearance and post-treatment 
Protection class 
Type of method 
Abbreviation for surface protection 


Page 4 
VW 137 50: 2005-02 
 
The restrictions stipulated in VW 603 61 must be observed for mechanical joining elements. 
The following standards apply to thread dimensions prior to surface treatment: VW 116 10, 
VW 116 14, VW 116 24, VW 116 25 and VW 116 27. For thread dimensions after surface 
treatment, VW 116 11 and VW 116 15 apply. 
All-metal clamping nuts must always be treated with additional or integrated lubricants. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. The coatings used must be free of 
compounds containing Cr(VI) or lead. 
3.2 
Drawing specifications 
If a certain surface protection is required for the entire part or for several parts in an ASSY, the 
code shall be entered in the surface protection title block; e.g. Ofl-t650 (see also VW 010 58). If 
several surface protection types can be applied optionally, the codes for all permissible treatments 
shall be given, 
e.g. Ofl-r673/x630. 
If only partial protection is applied to a part, “see drawing” shall be entered in the surface protection 
title block; a wide dash-dot line with a datum line (see Figure 1) marks the given area on the part. 
If there is only a small area on the part that is without surface protection, the unprotected area shall 
be marked (Figure 2). In this case “see drawing” shall be entered in the surface protection 
title block. 
 
 
Figure 1 
 
Figure 2 
 
If different surface treatments are required for a part, “see drawing” shall be entered in the surface 
protection title block. The given areas on the part shall be clearly indicated. 
If parts from one ASSY are separately coated (one or more different surface treatments), “see 
drawing” shall be entered in the surface protection title block of the assembly drawing. The surface 
treatments shall be referred to separately in the part-related drawings. 
3.3 
Weldability 
If parts with surface protection are to be welded to each other or to other metal parts, the parts 
shall be tested for weldability. Ofl-c340 shall be provided as the standard surface protection. 
3.4 
Agents impairing wetting ability 
Lubricants and slushing oils shall be free of silicone oils and other agents that significantly impair 
wetting ability. 
without surface protection


Page 5 
VW 137 50: 2005-02 
 
3.5 
Friction behavior 
The influence of the surface protection on the friction behavior, particularly for parts with metric 
ISO thread, shall be determined by testing and matched to the performance characteristics. 
The total coefficient of friction of a test batch with surface protection type b140 and with all 
surface protection types with additional or integrated lubricant treatment shall be in the range 
from 0.09 to 0.15 (except for joining elements with adhesive or locking coating as well as tapping 
screws, Powerlock® screws and clamping nuts [all-metal and PA ring]). 
3.6 
Zinc coatings 
Electrolytically deposited or electroplated coatings are not permissible for high-strength steel and/or 
standard parts with a tensile strength of Rm > 1,000 MPA and threaded parts with a property 
class of  10.9. 
Exceptions are possible for components that are only subjected to pressure. 
Zinc flake coatings according to code letter t shall preferably be used. 
Only in exceptional cases when electrolytically deposited zinc coating or zinc alloy coating is 
absolutely necessary for functional reasons can these coatings be applied with integrated heat 
treatment according to DIN 50969. The use of such coatings is limited to tensile strength values of 
1,200 MPa for standard parts (see VW 602 50). 
Electrolytically zinc-coated parts or zinc alloy coated parts shall be post-treated in passivation 
solutions in order to improve corrosion resistance. 
Cr(VI)-free passivated zinc coating systems without additional coatings (paint coats) are, apart from 
the joining elements, only permissible for use in the passenger compartment. 
The appearance of zinc/nickel alloy coatings shall be matched to their immediate environment. 
Only transparent passivation treatment is permissible for electrically conducting connections. 
Additional sealing of the coating is a further improvement of the corrosion protection of zinc-coated 
parts and zinc alloy coated parts respectively. 
3.7 
Screws, bolts, nuts, threaded parts and shaped parts 
The test specifications according to Table 2 apply to the thread-free areas of screws, bolts, nuts 
and similar threaded or shaped parts; the next protection class down is applied to the thread and 
shank. 
The application of the protective layers must not result in the h-position being exceeded in the case 
of external threads or the H-position being fallen below in the case of internal threads. 
3.8 
Commercial surface protection types 
Commercial surface protection types can be used for less important applications (e.g. steel wire). 
They are not tested for corrosion resistance however. If this kind of protection is sufficient for a 
part, the code letter of the method and the digits 010 shall be stated. The description for 
commercial coating for example would look like the following: Ofl-x010. Distinction can also be 
made between method and finish; e.g. for commercial hot-dip tin coating: Ofl-g020. 
The commercial surface protection types, e.g. Ofl-c010 “commercial zinc coating” and Ofl-r010 
“commercial electrolytical zinc-alloy coating” must not contain any Cr(VI) compounds. 


Page 6 
VW 137 50: 2005-02 
 
3.9 
Parts without surface protection 
3.9.1 
Joining elements 
Parts with the description “bright”, surface protection type “without”, “-” or without any description 
shall, as indicated in DIN ISO 8992, be supplied in lightly oiled condition. If in exceptional cases 
unoiled parts must be supplied, this must be indicated in the drawing by means of the entry 
“not oiled”. 
3.9.2 
Other parts (e.g. sheets) 
QP-A001 applies to parts without surface protection with the description surface protection type 
“without” or “bright, oiled”. If in exceptional cases unoiled parts must be supplied, this must 
be indicated in the drawing by means of the entry “not oiled”. 
3.10 
Assignment of surface protection types and codes 
The specifications of Table 2 shall apply. Surface protection types represented in bold italics shall 
preferably be used for joining elements; surface protection types with a frame are standard surface 
protection for components without threads. 
Surface protection types in brackets contain Cr(VI) and are not available for new designs. 
Table A.3 presents the surface protection types according to VW 137 50 that correspond to the 
protection types of VDA1 test sheet 235-104. Table A.4 lists all the invalid protection types that 
were included in earlier issues of VW 137 50. 
 
Table 2 – Surface protection type codes 
Protection type 
Codes for protection classes 
Code 
letter 
Coating process 
Finish/system; 
requirements 
Post-treatment and 
appearance 
1 
light 
3 
medium 
6 
heavy 
not oiled 
b100 
- 
- 
passivated 
b101 
- 
- 
oiled, greased,  
wax coated 
b110 
2) 
- 
- 
silver gray  
(for internal applications) 
b111 
- 
- 
yellow glazing, for internal 
applications (water-based 
paint) 
b112 
- 
- 
see Footnote 1 
manganese phosphated 
and oiled 
b130 
10), 22) - 
- 
b 
phosphated 
1) 
thin layer zinc 
phosphated; 
TL 240 
oiled 
b140 
- 
- 
Footnotes: see Page 11 
                                                
1 VDA = German Association of the Automotive Industry 


Page 7 
VW 137 50: 2005-02 
 
Table 2 (continued) 
Protection type 
Codes for protection classes 
Code 
letter 
Coating process 
Finish/bath type;
requirements 
Post-treatment and 
appearance 
1 
light 
3 
medium 
6 
heavy 
hot-dip 
zinc coated 
TL 217 
without post-treatment 
- 
c330 
c630 
without post-treatment 
3) 
- 
c310 
c610 
passivated 
- 
c340 
c640 
passivated and sealed 
- 
c341 
c641 
thick-layer passivated 
- 
c342 
c642 
thick-layer passivated and 
sealed 
- 
c343 
c643 
thick-layer passivated, with 
lubricant treatment 
24) 
- 
c347 
c647 
yellow chromated 
- 
(c350)
10) 
(c650)
10) 
yellow chromated and 
sealed 
- 
(c351)
10) 
(c651)
10) 
yellow chromated, with 
lubricant treatment 
- 
(c355)
5),10)
- 
Method optional 
for high-strength 
parts, however 
restricted acc. 
to Section 3.6; 
TL 217 
olive chromated 
6) 
- 
(c360)
10) 
(c660)
10) 
olive chromated 
6) 
- 
- 
(c683) 
10) 
acid bright zinc 
coated; TL 217 
olive chromated, with 
lubricant treatment 
7), 24) 
- 
(c385)
10) 
(c685)
5),10)
light yellow chromated, 
sealed 
- 
- 
(c686)
10) 
light yellow chromated, 
sealed, with lubricant 
treatment 
7), 24) 
- 
- 
(c687)
10) 
passivated and sealed 
7) 
- 
- 
c696 
c 
electrolytically 
zinc coated 
4) 
weakly acidic, for 
contact with Mg; 
TL 194 
passivated and sealed, with 
lubricant treatment 
7), 24) 
- 
- 
c697 
semi-bright nickel 
plated 
without post-treatment 
- 
e310 
8) 
e610 
9) 
e 
electrolytically 
nickel plated 
bright nickel plated
without post-treatment 
- 
e320 
8) 
e620 
9) 
mirror-bright, with 
microcracks 
- 
- 
f620 
f 
electrolytically 
chrome-plated 
bright chrome-
plated; TL 203 
mirror-bright 
- 
f350 
f650 
electrolytically 
tin coated 
bright tin coated 
without post-treatment 
g100 
g300 
g600 
g 
11) 
hot-dip tin coated
 
without post-treatment 
g120 
g320 
g620 
k 
electrolytically 
copper-plated 
 
without post-treatment 
k110 
12) 
k310 
10),12)
- 
silvery matte without post-
treatment 
- 
- 
q600 
Al coating, TL 243 silvery matte, with lubricant 
treatment 
24) 
- 
- 
q605 
silvery gloss without post-
treatment 
- 
- 
q610 
q 
electrolytically 
aluminum-alloy 
coated 
Al/Mg coating, 
TL 243 
silvery gloss, with lubricant 
treatment 
24) 
- 
- 
q615 
Footnotes: see Page 11 
 


Page 8 
VW 137 50: 2005-02 
 
Table 2 (continued) 
Protection type 
Codes for protection classes 
Code 
letter 
Coating process 
Finish/bath type; 
requirements 
Post-treatment and 
appearance 
1 
light 
3 
medium 
6 
heavy 
alloy and/or 
electrolyte type 
optional; TL 153 
black chromated 
6) 
- 
- 
(r600)
10) 
silver passivated 
- 
r301 
- 
Fe-alloyed; TL 153
black passivated, sealed 
- 
r302 
- 
alloy and/or 
electrolyte type 
optional; TL 153 
black chromated, with 
lubricant treatment 
24) 
- 
- 
(r605)
10) 
low-alloy with Fe 
and Co; TL 153 
black chromated 
6) 
- 
- 
(r610)
10) 
low-alloy with Fe, 
alkaline, cyanide-
free; TL 153 
black chromated 
6) 
- 
- 
(r620)
10) 
low-alloy with Co, 
alkaline or acidic; 
TL 153 
black chromated 
6) 
- 
- 
(r630)
10) 
transparent passivated, 
sealed 
- 
- 
r640
10) 
transparent passivated 
- 
- 
r642 
transparent passivated, 
sealed 
 
 
r643 
Ni alloy, alkaline 
TL 244 
transparent passivated, 
sealed, with lubricant 
treatment 
24) 
- 
- 
r645 
transparent passivated, 
only for castings 
- 
- 
r649 
Ni alloy, weakly 
acidic; TL 244 
yellow chromated 
5), 6), 10) 
- 
- 
(r650)
10) 
yellow chromated 
5), 6) 
- 
- 
(r660)
10) 
yellow chromated, with 
lubricant treatment 
24) 
- 
- 
(r665)
10) 
black chromated 
5), 6) 
- 
- 
(r670)
10) 
black passivated 
- 
- 
r672 
black passivated, sealed 
- 
- 
r673 
black chromated, with 
lubricant treatment 
24) 
- 
- 
(r675)
10) 
r 
electrolytically 
zinc alloy 
coated 
4) 
Ni alloy, alkaline; 
TL 244 
black passivated, with 
lubricant treatment 
24) 
- 
- 
r677 
Footnotes: see Page 11 


Page 9 
VW 137 50: 2005-02 
 
Table 2 (continued) 
Protection type 
Codes for protection classes 
Code 
letter 
Coating process 
Finish/bath type; 
requirements 
Post-treatment and 
appearance 
1 
light 
3 
medium 
6 
heavy 
yellow chromated acc. 
to TL 217 plus cathodic 
dip-coating 
- 
- 
(s610)
10) 
passivated acc. to TL 217 
plus cathodic dip-coating, 
black 
- 
- 
s611 
yellow chromated acc. 
to TL 217 plus cathodic 
dip-coating, with lubricant 
treatment 
24) 
- 
- 
(s615)
10) 
passivated acc. to TL 217 
plus cathodic dip-coating, 
black, with lubricant 
treatment 
24) 
- 
- 
s617 
yellow chromated acc. 
to TL 244 plus cathodic 
dip-coating 
- 
- 
(s620)
10) 
thick-layer passivated acc. 
to TL 244 plus cathodic 
dip-coating, black 
- 
- 
s621 
yellow chromated acc. 
to TL 244 plus cathodic 
dip-coating, with lubricant 
treatment 
24) 
- 
- 
(s625)
10) 
s 
duplex coating 
(zinc or zinc/ 
nickel plus 
cathodic 
dip-coating) 
Zn/Ni; 
TL 196 
thick-layer passivated acc. 
to TL 244 plus cathodic 
dip-coating, black, with 
lubricant treatment 
24) 
- 
- 
s627 
TL 245 
- 
(t300)
10) 
(t600)
10) 
silver gray; use in exposed installation positions 
(engine, chassis), however not for threaded 
parts with metric ISO thread; TL 245 
- 
- 
t602 
silver gray; for components that are used in the 
body-in-white before painting or for which a 
special adhesive compatibility is required 
(microencapsulation); TL 245 
- 
t310
10) 
t610 
silver gray; for components which can be 
exposed to high temperatures (2000 h/200 °C), 
not for threaded parts with metric ISO thread; 
TL 245 
- 
- 
t611 
silver gray; standard surface protection for nuts 
with non-metallic locking element; TL 245  
- 
- 
t615 
TL 245 
- 
(t320)
10) 
(t620)
10) 
with organic coating, containing PTFE; 
preferably black, otherwise acc. to color 
chart;
15) TL 233 
- 
t330 
t630 
TL 245 
- 
(t345)
10),14) (t645)
10),23)
silver gray, standard surface protection for 
threaded parts with metric ISO thread; TL 245 
- 
- 
t647 
t 
zinc flake coating
with organic coating, preferably black; TL 233 
- 
t350 
t650 
Footnotes: see Page 11 


Page 10 
VW 137 50: 2005-02 
 
Table 2 (continued) 
Protection type 
Codes for protection class 
Code 
letter 
Coating process 
Finish/electrolyte 
type; requirements
Post-treatment and 
appearance 
1 
light 
3 
medium 
6 
heavy 
black finish 
DIN 50938 
oiled 
u110 
- 
- 
u 
Zn-ThD layer 
22) 
silver gray, passivated; TL 184 
- 
- 
u610 
chromated 
 
(v110)
10),13) - 
- 
v 
passivated 
 
v111 
19) 
- 
- 
transparent, matte 
- 
- 
w610 
transparent, bright 
- 
- 
w620 
dyed, matte 
- 
- 
w630 
dyed, bright 
- 
- 
w640 
transparent, matte 
- 
- 
w660 
10) 
decorative 
application; TL 212 
dyed, bright 
- 
- 
w670 
10) 
transparent anodized; TL 212 
w180 
- 
w680 
hard anodized; TL 212 
- 
- 
w690 
w 
anodized 
hard anodized and impregnated; TL 212 
- 
- 
w695 
pretreatment not specified 
16), single-layer liquid 
paint or cathodic-dip coating; TL 260 
x100 
x300 
x600 
multi-layer structure; 
TL 218 
- 
- 
x610 
zinc phosphated 
and painted 
piano lacquer structure; 
TL 218 
- 
- 
x611 
multi-layer structure; 
TL 218 
- 
- 
x612 
electrolytically zinc 
coated and painted 
piano lacquer structure; 
TL 218 
- 
- 
x613 
Zn, Fe or Mn phosphated, single-layer liquid 
paint or cathodic-dip coating
16); TL 260 
x130 
x330 
- 
zinc phosphated, single-layer liquid paint or 
cathodic-dip coating
16); TL 260 
- 
- 
x630 
17) 
zinc phosphated; dual layer paint; 
16) TL 260 
- 
- 
x631 
zinc phosphated; electrolytically zinc coated 
(individual parts) and painted; 
16), 20) TL 227 
- 
- 
x632 
zinc phosphated (passivated in exceptional 
cases); hot dipped zinc coated (semi-finished 
product) and painted; 
16), 20) TL 227 
- 
- 
x633 
x 
painted 
zinc phosphated, thick layer cathodic-dip 
coating or cathodic-dip coating + dip paint; 
TL 260 
- 
- 
x634 
layer forming;
16) TL 256 
- 
- 
x650 
x 
powder paint-
coated 
layer forming and primed;
16) TL 256 
- 
 
x651 
base layer, e.g. for leaf springs; TL 214 
- 
- 
y600 
y 
paint-coated with 
zinc dust 
heat-resistant zinc dust; TL 214 
- 
- 
y650 
z 
electroplated 
tin/zinc coating 
passivated 
- 
z300 
18) 
- 
Footnotes: see Page 11 
