# VW50200E.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 22 1 
July 2005 
Service Engine Oil 
for Spark Ignition Engines 
Requirement, Testing 
VW 
502 00 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
service engine oil, spark ignition engine, gasoline engine, engine oil 
 
Page 1 of 10 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-GQL-3 
Dr. Koßmehl 
Tel: -28508 
Dr. Beyersdorf 
Frau Hager-Süß Tel: +49-5361-9-49035 
Sobanski 
. 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without prior permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the B2B supplier platform “www.vwgroupsupply.com”. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.05 
Changes 
The 
following 
changes 
have 
been 
made 
as 
compared 
to 
Volkswagen 
standard 
VW 502 00, 1997-03: 
─ 
Standard restructured and completely revised 
─ 
Referenced standards updated 
Previous issues 
1997-03 
1 
Scope 
This standard contains the requirements for engine oils (oil changes and refills) for 
Volkswagen Group spark ignition engines. This standard is concerned with engine oils that achieve 
a higher level of quality than those governed by VW 501 01. 
2 
Symbols and abbreviations 
ACEA 
Association of Constructors of European Automobiles 
CEC 
Co-Ordinating European Council for the development of performance tests for 
lubricants and engine fuels 
3 
Description 
Service engine oil according to VW 502 00 
4 
Requirements 
4.1 
General requirements 
Once engine oils according to this standard have been approved by the Group Laboratory, their 
containers shall be identified with the note “Released according to VW 502 00”. The container 
labeling shall also include an unambiguous reference to a production batch. 
All requirements of this standard defined in Sections 5 and 6 shall be documented in the test 
certificate issued by the Volkswagen Group, which shall bear the oil code and the company stamp 
and signature of the applicant. 
Any engine oil release issued by the Group shall become invalid if the oil's formulation is changed. 
This applies to changes and/or replacement of basic oil components and viscosity index improvers 
as well as additive systems and their components. Engine oils according to this standard must be 
miscible and compatible in any ratio with factory-fill oils and commercially available engine oils. 
The release of an engine oil and its rebrands shall expire 36 months after the original release date 
unless it is demonstrated again that the requirements of the standard valid at that time are met. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
VW 502 00: 2005-07 
 
To obtain reinstatement of release, the manufacturer shall again submit the test certificate and all 
test reports, as required by this standard. 
If an engine oil that has already been released no longer meets the required criteria based on field 
tests, then the release for the respective engine oil will become invalid. 
If the release expires, then the engine oil manufacturer is obligated to inform other engine oil 
customers immediately – such as in cases of rebranding, for example. 
All expenses incurred by the Volkswagen Group in the process of an oil release or reinstatement of 
release shall be charged to the applicant. In the event that a field test results in complaints, the oil 
manufacturer shall be charged with any expenses incurred by the Volkswagen Group. 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
Observance of Directive 2000/53/EC on end-of-life vehicles. 
Upon request, the manufacturer shall provide 30 liters of the respective oil for the purpose of 
evaluation by the Volkswagen Group Laboratory K-GQL-3 (referred to hereinafter only as the 
Group Laboratory). 
4.2 
Shelf life 
Shelf life in unopened original packaging at -20 °C to +50 °C shall be > 36 months. 
5 
Requirements for viscosity, composition and properties 
5.1 
Viscosity 
See Section 7.1. 
Viscosity grades according to SAE J 300: 1999-12 with the test conditions set out in Table 1. 
Viscosity at high temperatures and high shear drops (HTHS viscosity) according to Table 2. 
Table 1 – Test conditions according to SAE J 300: 1999-12 
Viscosity grade 
Temperature (°C) 
Test acc. to 
Viscosity V 
SAE 0W-X 
-35 
DIN 51377 
≤ 6,200 mPa·s 
SAE 5W-X 
-30 
DIN 51377 
≤ 6,600 mPa·s 
SAE 10W-X 
-25 
DIN 51377 
≤ 7,000 mPa·s 
SAE XW-30 
100 
DIN 51562-1 
9.3 to < 12.5 mm²/s 
SAE XW-40 
100 
DIN 51562-1 
12.5 to < 16.3 mm²/s 
Table 2 – Viscosity at high temperatures and high shear drops 
HTHS viscosity 
Test acc. to 
Unit 
Viscosity V 
At 150 °C and 106 s-1 
CEC L-36-A-90 
mPa·s 
≥ 3.5 


Page 3 
VW 502 00: 2005-07 
 
5.2 
Composition and properties 
See Table 3 and Section 7.1. 
Table 3 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1 
Sulfated ash 
acc. to DIN 51575 
≤ 1.5% 
2 
Zinc content 
acc. to DIN 51391-3 
According to sample (%) 
3 
Phosphorus content 
acc. to DIN 51363-3 
≥ 0.07 (in combination with VW 505 01) 
≥ 0.08 (in combination with VW 505 00), 
see Section 7.3 
4 
Sulfur content 
acc. to DIN EN ISO 14596 
According to sample (%) 
5 
Calcium content 
acc. to DIN 51391-3 
According to sample (%) 
6 
Magnesium content 
acc. to DIN 51391-3 
According to sample (%) 
7 
Molybdenum content 
acc. to E DIN 51396-1 
According to sample (%) 
8 
Silicon content 
acc. to DIN 51390-2 
According to sample (%) 
9 
Boron content 
acc. to DIN 51391-3 
According to sample (%) 
10 
Nitrogen content 
acc. to ASTM D 3228 
According to sample (%) 
11 
Chlorine content 
acc. to DIN 51577-3 
According to sample (%) 
12 
Bromine content 
acc. to DIN 51577-3 
Not permitted 
13 
Barium content 
acc. to DIN 51391-3 
Not permitted 
14 
Total basicity 
acc. to DIN ISO 3771 
≥ 7.0 mg KOH/g 
15 
Density 
acc. to DIN 51757 
at 15 °C 
According to sample (g/cm³) 
16 
Evaporation loss 
acc. to CEC L-40-A-93, method B 
< 13% 
17 
Composition (base oil types and 
viscosities) and manufacturer of the base 
oil 
According to sample (%) 
18 
Additive package content 
Specification of the package code and 
manufacturer 
According to sample (%) 
19 
Content of viscosity index improvers 1) 
According to sample (%) 
20 
Transmission IR spectrum created with a 
layer thickness of (100 ± 1) µm with 
indication of the oil code acc. to DIN 51451
According to sample, must be indicated 
1) 
The exact designation and the manufacturer of the product, the content of polymer solid and pre-dissolved VI improver 
(polymer and fluid medium) in the total formulation of the engine oil must be specified. 


Page 4 
VW 502 00: 2005-07 
 
6 
Functional requirements 
The engine oil shall meet the current requirements of ACEA Oil Sequence A3/B4-04. 
6.1 
Anti-wear behavior 
Anti-wear behavior (Table 4) shall be tested on a component test bench that determines the wear 
on eight cam followers and the four cams of a camshaft. Results from tests performed on these test 
benches shall only be accepted if two reference tests are performed first with the reference oil 
RL 206 (the batch number must be specified). The specimen parts used shall originate from part 
batches specifically released for this purpose. This shall be documented in the test certificate. 
Table 4 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
Anti-wear behavior (cam follower/cam shaft wear test) 
according to Test Specification PV 5106 
1 
Spring load 
1 h at 700 N (running in) 
16 h at 1,800 N (continued running) 
1.1 
Seizing wear 
Not permitted 
Pitting 
on the cam follower 
≤ 20 µm 
1.2 
on the cam 
≤ 20 µm 
Wear 
on the cam follower 
(Σ of measuring points 2 to 6) 
≤ 100 µm 
1.3 
on the cam 
≤ 75 µm 
6.2 
Elastomer compatibility 
See Table 5. 
Table 5 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1 
Elastomer compatibility acc. to PV 3344 and Section 7.2 
RE-AEM1 (fomerly VW-VAMAC) 
RE-ACM1 (fomerly VW-ACM) 
RE-AK6/1 (formerly FPM-AK6) 
1.1 
RE-AEM 1 
Test duration 168 h 
1.1.1 
Hardness change 
(-8 to +8) Shore A 
1.1.2 
Decrease in tensile stress at yield 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≤ 30% 
1.1.3 
Decrease in elongation at break 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≤ 30% 
1.1.4 
Weight change 
(-3 to +15)% 
1.2 
RE-ACM 1 
Test duration 168 h 
1.2.1 
Hardness change 
(-5 to +6) Shore A 
1.2.2 
Decrease in tensile stress at yield 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≤ 30% 
1.2.3 
Decrease in elongation at break 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≤ 30% 
1.2.4 
Weight change 
(-2 to +4)% 


Page 5 
VW 502 00: 2005-07 
 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1.3 
RE-AK 6/1 
Test duration 3 x 94 h 
1.3.1 
Tensile strength at break 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≥ 8 N/mm2  
1.3.2 
Decrease in tensile strength at break 
≤ 50 rel. % 
1.3.3 
Elongation at break 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≥ 160% 
1.3.4 
Decrease in elongation at break 
≤ 50 rel. % 
1.3.5 
Cracking 
Not permitted 
6.3 
Shear stability 
In accordance with DIN 51382. See Table 6. 
Table 6 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1 
Testing in Bosch pump according to CEC L-14-A-93 
1.1 
Relative viscosity drop (100 °C) 
≤ 15% 
1.2 
SAE XW-30, after shearing 
≥ 9.3 mm²/s 
1.3 
SAE XW-40, after shearing 
≥ 12 mm²/s 
6.4 
Testing in VW 2.0 l/62 kW/4-cylinder spark ignition engine according to PV 1449 
See Table 7. 
Table 7 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1 
Test fuel 
acc. to CEC RF-83-A-91 
Batch number must be specified 
2 
Viscosity at +40 °C 
acc. to DIN 51562-1 
≤ 200 mm²/s – Vnew oil • ∆mean value MW 
(∆V) 
3 
Viscosity increase at +40 °C 
acc. to DIN 51562-1 
≤ 130% – ∆ mean value MW (∆V) 
4 
Basicity 
acc. to ISO 3771 
≥ 5 mg KOH/g + TBNnew oil • ∆mean value MW 
(∆TBN) 
5 
Piston ring sticking 
acc. to CEC M-02-A-78 
0 ASF 
6 
Piston cleanliness 
acc. to CEC M-02-A-78 
(mean value of 5 zones on pistons 1 to 4) 
> 1 point 
6.4.1 
Approval procedure for registration as oil test laboratory according to PV 1449 
Release test runs according to PV 1449 shall only be accepted from independent testing institutes 
that are approved by the Group Laboratory and are associated neither directly nor indirectly with 
the mineral oil or additive industry.  
Only those testing institutes with headquarters in the European Union or the United States shall be 
recognized to carry out work involved in the release of engine oils according to this standard.  
All oil test runs shall be submitted in writing or by fax to the responsible department K-GQL-3 
(1437/3) of the Group Laboratory in good time prior to commencement.  
The testing institutes shall allow Volkswagen Group employees to take part in and evaluate the 
specified test runs at all times. 
 


Page 6 
VW 502 00: 2005-07 
 
Referencing of engine test bench equipment – overview:  
Full referencing of an engine test bench for performing oil test runs (testing according to PV 1449) 
shall take place after a total of three test runs using the calibration oil specified by the Group 
Laboratory. 
 
Before commencing referencing of test benches according to PV 1449, the current status of the 
referencing conditions must be obtained from the Group Laboratory. 
 
Provisional approval of an engine test bench by the Group Laboratory shall be awarded after two 
test runs. 
6.4.2 
Approval procedure 
Test laboratories that carry out engine test runs according to PV 1449 for the purpose of releasing 
an engine oil for use within the Volkswagen Group shall be approved by the Group Laboratory if 
they meet the prerequisites specified in this section. 
 
The approval refers to specific, designated engine test benches in the respective test laboratories. 
6.4.2.1 General technical requirements 
Each test laboratory applying for approval in accordance with this standard must demonstrate that 
it meets the technical prerequisites for ensuring a proper test sequence in accordance with 
PV 1449 for each individual engine test bench to be used for the release test runs. The test 
laboratories must allow representatives from the Group Laboratory to verify the test conditions on-
site by prior appointment. 
6.4.2.2 Basic metrological requirements 
For a first application the test laboratory shall perform at least two test runs according to PV 1449 
with the calibration oil ESSO EGL 76409 (the batch number must be specified) on the respective 
engine test bench to be approved. A third test run result shall be submitted within six months once 
provisional approval has been granted. Should the test run intended for full approval return a “fail” 
result, a repeat test run may only extend the provisional approval by six months. A further test run 
result shall then be submitted within these six months in order to obtain full approval. The test 
engines used shall be test engines in accordance with the PV 1449 valid at that time. The used oil 
specimens and the sets of pistons from the test engines used shall be sent to the Group Laboratory 
for re-evaluation. The results of the evaluations of the pistons and oil samples, together with the 
pistons, shall be returned to the respective testing institute. 
A single control test run in accordance with the procedure described in the above section shall be 
performed once a year on the approved engine test benches using the calibration oil 
ESSO EGL 76409 (the batch number must be specified). If there is a change in reference fuel 
batches during this period, the next control test run with the new fuel batch shall be brought 
forward. The one-year period shall then start again. The oil release test runs performed on these 
test benches shall not be recognized if this period is exceeded. 
6.4.2.3 Evaluation of results 
6.4.2.3.1 
Test bench approval 
The following mean values and/or ranges between the individual results shall be achieved by the 
first two test runs with the specified calibration oil (see Section 6.4.2.2) on each individual engine 
test bench and for the individual evaluation criteria. 


Page 7 
VW 502 00: 2005-07 
 
Mean value of  
maximum range 
(between the individual results) 
∆viscosity 40 °C 
76.7 ± 19.8% 
R ≤ 59.44% 
∆TBN 
-41.1 ± 8.9% 
R ≤ 18.75% 
6.4.2.3.2 
Determination of limit values for oil releases 
The provisional test bench-related limit values for the individual evaluation criteria for an oil release 
shall be continuously determined from the results of the control test runs on a test bench, using the 
individual test bench results already available. 
BV 
[mm2/s] 
≤ B – Vnew oil • ∆mean value MW (∆V) 
b∆V 
[%] 
 
≤ B – ∆mean value MW (∆V) 
bTBN 
[mg KOH/g] 
≥ B + TBNnew oil • ∆mean value MW (∆TBN) 
b 
Test bench-related limit value for the respective evaluation criterion 
B 
Required limit according to Volkswagen standard 
∆MW (∆V) 
Differential value of the mean value of viscosity changes (∆V) 
∆MW (∆TBN) 
Differential value of the mean value of changes in the total base number (∆TBN) 
6.4.2.4 Approval process 
Engine test benches that satisfy the requirements according to Sections 6.4.2.1 and 6.4.2.2 in all 
points and whose test run results meet the requirements according to Section 6.4.2.3.1 shall be 
provisionally or fully approved by the Group Laboratory as test benches for engine oil release tests 
according to PV 1449. 
6.5 
M 111 E sludge test according to CEC L-053-95 
See Table 8. 
Table 8 
Test fuel CEC RF-86-A-96 
 
Batch number must be specified
Piston ring sticking 
acc. to CEC-M-02-A-78 
ASF 
To be specified 
Oil filter change 
 
Not permitted 
Differential pressure on oil filter bar 
≤ 1.8 
Sludge evaluation according to CEC L-053-95, Chapter 8 
Cylinder head cover 
Points 
To be specified 
Cylinder head 
Points 
To be specified 
Oil pan 
Points 
To be specified 
Upper timing case cover 
Points 
To be specified 
Lower timing case cover 
Points 
To be specified 
Mean value 
Points 
To be specified 


Page 8 
VW 502 00: 2005-07 
 
For the test runs, a fuel batch shall be used that has yielded a mean value of ≤ 8.5 points in the 
respective CEC team SG-L-053 inter-laboratory test using reference oil RL 140. Only results from 
test benches which have successfully taken part in the given valid inter-laboratory test of the 
CEC SG-L-053 and for which the deviation in inter-laboratory testing with the RL 140 reference oil 
is not greater than the simple standard deviation from the mean value (ξ ± 1 s) shall be accepted 
for Volkswagen engine oil releases. The Group Laboratory shall inform the CEC SG-L-053 as to 
the validity of the inter-laboratory test for the Volkswagen engine oil releases. 
The requirement for the number of points to be attained with the oil under test (nK) on the 
respective test bench shall be deduced from the test bench value obtained with RL 140 (nPST RL 140) 
and the standard deviation (s) from the inter-laboratory test: 
nK = nPST RL 140 +4 s. 
If this results in unrealistically high requirements for the oil under test (nK > 9.0) being obtained 
mathematically on individual, approved test benches, the minimum requirement to be attained shall 
be ≥ 9.0 points. 
The same fuel batch, as approved by the CEC team SG-L-053 and the Group Laboratory, shall be 
used as the test fuel for the oil under test and the reference oil. Any test conditions that may 
deviate from the specified test procedure shall be subject to prior approval by the Group 
Laboratory. 
7 
Notes on testing 
7.1 
Manufacturing tolerances for chemophysical properties 
The manufacturing tolerance to be observed in the production of the end product shall be stated in 
the test certificate. It must be ensured that values do not exceed or fall below the limit values, even 
if the maximum possible manufacturing tolerance is reached. 
7.2 
Elastomer compatibility 
S3A standard specimens according to DIN 53504; test temperature: (150 ± 1) °C; ratio of specimen 
to oil according to PV 3323: 1 : 80. 
Supply source for test elastomers FPM SRE AK 6/VW-ACM test/VW-VAMAC test: 
 
the company Parker-Hannifin GmbH, Packing Division, Post box 1641, 74306 Bietigheim-
Bissingen, Germany or the company EVT, Hohenaspen 14, 69321 Rauenberg, Germany. 
7.3 
Phosphorus content 
If the phosphorus content is < 0.10 wt %, functional and/or in-vehicle tests may be required for 
release. The type and scope of these tests shall be coordinated with the Group Laboratory prior to 
approval. 


Page 9 
VW 502 00: 2005-07 
 
8 
Referenced standards*) 
PV 1449 
Engine Oil; Suitability Test for Spark-Ignition Engines with Extended Oil-
Change Intervals 
PV 3323 
Test Vessels and Specimen Holders for Aging Standard Specimens 
PV 3344 
Engine Oil; Elastomer Compatibility Tests 
PV 5106 
Engine Oils; Testing the Wear Behavior 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 501 01 
Service Engine Oil for Diesel Engines 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN 51363-3 
Testing of Petroleum Products – Determination of the Phosphorous Content 
of Lubricating Oils and Additives – Part 3: Direct Determination by Optical 
Emission Spectral Analysis with Inductively Coupled Plasma (ICP OES) 
DIN 51377 
Testing of lubricants – Determination of the Apparent Viscosity of Motor Oils 
at Low Temperature from -5 °C to -35 °C – Using the Cold-Cranking 
Simulator 
DIN 51382 
Testing of Lubricants – Determination of Shear Stability of Lubricating Oils 
 
Containing Polymers – Method with Diesel Injection Nozzle, Relative 
 
Viscosity Loss due to Shear 
DIN 51390-2 
Testing of Petroleum Products – Determination of Silicone Content – Part 2: 
Analysis by Wavelength-Dispersive X-Ray Fluorescence Spectrometry 
DIN 51391-3 
Testing of Lubricants – Determination of the Content of Additive Elements – 
Part 3: Direct Determination of Ca, Mg, Zn and Ba by Optical Emission 
Spectral Analysis with Inductively Coupled Plasma (ICP OES) 
DIN 51396-1 
Testing of Lubricants – Determination of Wear Elements – Part 1: Direct 
Determination by Optical Emission Spectral Analysis with Inductively 
Coupled Plasma (ICP OES) 
DIN 51451 
Testing of Petroleum Products and Related Products – Analysis by Infrared 
Spectrometry – General Working Principles 
DIN 51562-1 
Viscometry – Measurement of Kinematic Viscosity by means of the 
Ubbelohde 
Viscometer 
– 
Part 1: 
Viscometer 
Specification 
and 
Measurement Procedure 
DIN 51575 
Testing of Petroleum Products; Determination of Sulfated Ash 
DIN 51577-3 
Testing of Mineral Oil Hydrocarbons and Similar Products; Determination of 
Chlorine and Bromine Content; Mass Fraction < 1,000 mg/kg, Analysis by 
Wavelength Dispersive X-Ray Spectrometry (XRS) 
DIN 51757 
Testing of Mineral Oils and Related Materials; Determination of Density 
DIN 53504 
Testing of Rubber; Determination of Tensile Strength at Break, Tensile 
Stress at Yield, Elongation at Break and Stress Values in a Tensile Test 
DIN EN ISO 14596 
Petroleum Products – Determination of Sulphur Content – Wavelength-
Dispersive X-Ray Fluorescence Spectrometry 
DIN ISO 3771 
Petroleum Products; Total Base Number; Potentiometric Perchloric Acid 
Titration Method 
                                                
*) In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 


Page 10 
VW 502 00: 2005-07 
 
ASTM D 3228 
Standard Test Method for Total Nitrogen in Lubricating Oils and Fuel Oils by 
Modified Kjeldahl Method 
CEC L-14-A-93 
Evaluation of the Mechanical Shear Stability of Lubricating Oils Containing 
Polymers (Fuel Injection Pump) 
CEC L-36-A-90 
The Measurement of Lubricant Dynamic Viscosity under High Shear 
Conditions  (Ravenfield Viscometer) Second Edition 
CEC L-40-A-93 
Evaporative Loss of Lubricating Oils (Noack Evaporative Tester) 
CEC L-53-95 
Evaluation of Sludge Inhibition Qualities of Motor Oils in Gasoline Engines 
CEC M-02-A-93 
Internal Combustion Engine Rating Procedure 
CEC RF-83-A-91 
CEC Experimentation Fuel 
CEC RF-86-A-96 
CEC Experimentation Fuel 
