# VW50101.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 22 1 
March 2005 
Service Engine Oil for Gasoline Engines 
Requirement, Testing 
VW 
501 01 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
service engine oil, gasoline engine, engine oil 
 
Page 1 of 8 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
K-QS-33/1 
Dr. Koßmehl 
Tel: -28508 
Dr. Beyersdorf 
Frau Hager-Süß Tel: +49-5361-9-49035 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Changes 
The 
following 
changes 
have 
been 
made 
as 
compared 
to 
Volkswagen 
standard 
VW 501 01, 1997-01: 
─ 
Standard completely revised and restructured 
─ 
Referenced standards updated 
Previous issues 
1983-03, 1986-10, 1988-11, 1991-10, 1992-11, 1997-01 
1 
Scope 
This standard contains the requirements for engine oils (oil changes and refills) for 
Volkswagen Group gasoline engines. 
2 
Symbols and descriptions 
ACEA 
Association of Constructors of European Automobiles 
CEC 
Co-Ordinating European Council for the development of performance tests for 
lubricants and engine fuels 
3 
Description 
Service engine oil according to VW 501 01 
4 
Requirements 
4.1 
General requirements 
Once engine oils according to this standard have been approved by the Central Laboratory (ZL), 
their containers shall be identified with the note “Released acc. to VW 501 01”. The container 
labeling shall also include an unambiguous reference to a production batch. 
All the requirements defined in Sections 4 and 5 of this standard shall be documented in the test 
certificate issued by the Volkswagen Group, quoting the oil code; this certificate must include the 
company stamp and signature of the applicant. 
Any engine oil release issued by the Group shall become invalid if the oil's formulation is changed. 
This relates to changes and/or replacement of basic oil components and viscosity index improvers 
as well as additive systems and components. Engine oils according to this standard must be 
miscible in any ratio with factory-fill oils and commercially available engine oils. 
The release of an engine oil and its rebrand shall expire 36 months after the original release date 
unless it is demonstrated once again that the requirements of the standard valid at that time are met. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
VW 501 01: 2005-03 
 
To obtain reinstatement of release the manufacturer shall again submit the test certificate and all 
test reports required by this standard. 
If an engine oil that has already been released no longer meets the required criteria based on field 
tests, then the release for the respective engine oil shall become invalid. 
If the release expires, then the engine oil manufacturer is obligated to inform other engine oil 
customers immediately – such as in cases of rebranding, for example. 
All expenses incurred by the Volkswagen Group in the process of an oil release or reinstatement of 
release shall be charged to the applicant. In the event that a field test results in complaints, the oil 
manufacturer shall be charged with any expenses incurred by the Volkswagen Group. 
Approval of first supply and changes according to VW 011 55. 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 911 01. 
Adherence to Directive 2000/53/EC End-of-life vehicles. 
For purposes of evaluation by the Volkswagen Central Laboratory K-QS-33 (referred to hereinafter 
as the Central Laboratory (ZL)), 30 liters of the oil in question shall be provided by the 
manufacturer upon request. 
4.2 
Shelf life 
Shelf life in unopened original packaging must be > 36 months at -20 °C to +50 °C. 
5 
Requirements for viscosity, composition and properties 
5.1 Viscosity 
See Section 7.1. 
Viscosity grades according to SAE J 300 (Issue 12/99) with the test conditions according to Table 1. 
Viscosity at high temperatures and high shear drops (HTHS viscosity) according to Table 2. 
Table 1 – Test conditions acc. to SAE J 300 (Issue 12/99) 
Viscosity Grade 
Temperature (°C) 
Test acc. to 
Viscosity V 
SAE 0W-X 
-35 
DIN 51377 
≤ 6,200 mPa·s 
SAE 5W-X 
-30 
DIN 51377 
≤ 6,600 mPa·s 
SAE 10W-X 
-25 
DIN 51377 
≤ 7,000 mPa·s 
SAE 15W-X 
-20 
DIN 51377 
≤ 7,000 mPa·s 
SAE 20W-X 
-15 
DIN 51377 
≤ 9,500 mPa·s 
SAE XW-30 
100 
DIN 51562-1 
9.3 to < 12.5 mm²/s 
SAE XW-40 
100 
DIN 51562-1 
12.5 to < 16.3 mm²/s 
SAE XW-50 
100 
DIN 51562-1 
16.3 to < 21.9 mm²/s 
SAE XW-60 
100 
DIN 51562-1 
21.9 to < 26.1 mm²/s 
 
Table 2 – Viscosity at high temperatures and high shear drops 
HTHS viscosity 
Test acc. to 
Unit 
Viscosity V 
At 150 °C and 106s-1 
CEC L-36-A-90 
mPa·s 
≥ 3.5 


Page 3 
VW 501 01: 2005-03 
 
5.2 
Composition and properties 
See Table 3 and Section 7.2. 
Table 3 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1 
Transmission IR spectrum generated with 
a layer thickness of (100 ± 1) µm 
specifying the oil code acc. to DIN 51451 
acc. to sample/must be specified 
2 
Sulfated ash 
acc. to DIN 51575 
≤ 1.5% 
3 
Zinc content 
acc. to DIN 51391-3 
acc. to sample (%) 
4 
Phosphorous content 
acc. to DIN 51363-3 
≥ 0.08 m%, see Section 7.3  
5 
Sulfur content 
acc. to DIN EN ISO 14596 
acc. to sample (%) 
6 
Magnesium content 
acc. to DIN 51391-3 
acc. to sample (%) 
7 
Calcium content 
acc. to DIN 51391-3 
acc. to sample (%) 
8 
Barium content 
acc. to DIN 51391-3 
not permissible 
9 
Molybdenum content 
per E DIN 51396-1 
acc. to sample (%) 
10 
Chlorine content 
acc. to DIN 51577-3 
acc. to sample (%) 
11 
Bromine content 
acc. to DIN 51577-3 
not permissible 
12 
Nitrogen content 
acc. to ASTM D 3228 
acc. to sample (%) 
13 
Silicon content 
acc. to DIN 51390-2 
acc. to sample (%) 
14 
Boron content 
acc. to DIN 51391-3 
acc. to sample (%) 
15 
Total basicity 
acc. to DIN ISO 3771 
≥ 7.0 mg KOH/g 
16 
Density 
acc. to DIN 51757 
at 15 °C 
acc. to sample (g/cm³) 
17 
Composition of the base oil (base oil types 
and viscosities) and its manufacturer 
acc. to sample (%) 
18 
Additive package content 
Specification of the package code and 
the manufacturer 
acc. to sample (%) 
19 
Viscosity index improver content 1) 
acc. to sample (%) 
20 
Evaporation loss 
per CEC L-40-A-93, procedure B 
< 13% 
1)  The exact description and the manufacturer of the product, the polymer solids and pre-dissolved VI improver (polymer and fluid 
medium) content in the total formulation of the engine oil must be specified. 


Page 4 
VW 501 01: 2005-03 
 
6 
Functional requirements 
The engine oil must meet the current requirements of ACEA Oil Sequence A3/B3-04. 
6.1 
Anti-wear behavior 
The anti-wear behavior (Table 4) is tested by means of a component test bench, which determines 
the wear at eight cam followers and the four cams of a camshaft. The results of the tests, 
conducted on these test benches, are only accepted once two reference tests using the reference 
oil RL 206 (batch no. must be indicated) have been conducted beforehand. The test parts used 
must be taken from parts batches released for this purpose. This must be documented in the test 
certificate. 
Table 4 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
Anti-wear behavior (cam follower/camshaft wear test) 
acc. to Test Specification PV 5106 
1 
Spring load 
1 h at 700 N (run-in)  
16 h at 1,800 N (continuation) 
1.1 
Seizing wear 
not permissible 
Pitting 
on the cam follower 
≤ 20 µm 
1.2 
on the cam 
≤ 20 µm 
Wear 
on the cam follower  
(Σ of the measurement points 2 to 6) 
≤ 100 µm 
1.3 
on the cam 
≤ 75 µm 
6.2 
Elastomer compatibility 
See Table 5. 
Table 5 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1 
Elastomer compatibility acc. to PV 3344 (AK6, AEM and ACM)  
see Section 6.2 
RE-AEM 1 
Test duration 168 h 
Hardness change 
(-8 to +8) Shore A 
Reduction in tensile stress at yield 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≤ 30% 
Reduction in elongation at break 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≤ 30% 
1.1 
Weight change 
(-3 to +15)% 


Page 5 
VW 501 01: 2005-03 
 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
RE-ACM 1 
Test duration 168 h 
Hardness change 
(-5 to +6) Shore A 
Reduction in tensile stress at yield 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≤ 30% 
Reduction in elongation at break 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≤ 30% 
1.2 
Weight change 
(-2 to +4)% 
RE-AK6/1 
Test duration 3 x 94 h 
Tensile strength at break 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≥ 8 N/mm2  
Reduction in tensile strength at break 
≤ 50 rel. % 
Elongation at break 
acc. to DIN 53504 
≥ 160% 
Reduction in elongation at break 
≤ 50 rel. % 
1.3 
Cracking 
not permissible 
6.3 
Shear stability 
According to DIN 51382. See Table 6. 
Table 6 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1 
Testing in Bosch pump acc. to CEC L-14-A-93 
1.1 
Relative viscosity drop (100 °C) 
≤ 15% 
1.2 
SAE XW-30, after shearing 
≥ 9.3 mm²/s 
1.3 
SAE XW-40, after shearing 
≥ 12 mm²/s 
1.4 
SAE XW-50, after shearing 
≥ 16.3 mm²/s 
1.5 
SAE XW-60, after shearing 
≥ 21.9 mm²/s 
6.4 
TU 5 JP – High-temperature oxidation test in the gasoline engine according to 
CEC L-088-02 (ACEA A3/B3 requirement) 
See Table 7. 
Table 7 
No. 
Property 
Requirement 
1 
Test duration 
72 h 
2 
Piston ring sticking 
≥ 9.0 points 
3 
Piston cleanliness 
≥ RL 216 points 
4 
Viscosity increase at 40 °C 
≤ 0.8 x RL 216 mm²/s 
5 
Oil consumption 
to be indicated (kg/test) 
For releases according to this standard, only the test results of test benches being operated by 
members of the CEC team SG-L-088 are accepted. All of the requirements described in the test 
specification CEC L-088-02 must be fulfilled and successful participation in the relevant valid inter-
laboratory tests of this team must be certified. The results achieved with the reference oil RL 216 
shall be submitted quoting the batch number. 


Page 6 
VW 501 01: 2005-03 
 
6.5 
M 111E sludge test acc. to CEC L-53-95 
─ 
Test fuel batch 
to be specified 
─ 
Piston ring sticking acc. to CEC M-02-A-78 
to be specified 
─ 
Oil filter change 
not permissible 
─ 
Differential pressure on oil filter 
≤ 1.8 bar 
Sludge evaluation according to CEC L-53-95, Section 8. See Table 8. 
Table 8 
Cylinder head cover 
Points 
to be specified 
Cylinder head 
Points 
to be specified 
Oil pan 
Points 
to be specified 
Upper timing case cover 
Points 
to be specified 
Lower timing case cover 
Points 
to be specified 
Mean value 
Points 
≥ RL 140 + 4s 
The requirement for the number of points to be attained with the oil under test (nK) on the 
respective test stand is deduced from the test stand value obtained with RL 140 (nPST RL 140) and the 
standard deviation (s) from the inter-laboratory test: 
nK = nPST RL 140 + 4s. 
In the event that this would mean that unrealistically high requirements for the oil under test would 
be obtained mathematically on individual, approved test stands, the minimum requirement to be 
attained is ≥ 9.0 points. 
For the test runs use the same fuel batch that has yielded a mean value of ≤ 8.5 points in the 
respective CEC team SG-L-053 inter-laboratory test using reference oil RL 140. Only results from 
test stands which have successfully taken part in the given valid inter-laboratory test of the 
SG-L-053 and for which the deviation with respect to the RL 140 reference oil is not greater than 
the simple standard deviation from the mean value (X ± 1s) shall be accepted for Volkswagen 
service engine oil releases. The SG-L-053 shall be informed of the validity of the inter-laboratory 
test for the Volkswagen service engine oil releases by the Central Laboratory (ZL). 
The same fuel batch approved by the CEC team SG-L-053 and the Central Laboratory shall be 
used as the test fuel for the oil under test and reference oil. Any test conditions that may deviate 
from the specified test procedure are subject to prior approval by the Central Laboratory (ZL). 
7 
Notes on testing and explanations 
7.1 
Scatter ranges of chemical/physical properties 
The scatter range, which is to be strictly observed during production of the end product, is to be 
specified. It must be ensured that all limit values are observed even when the maximum possible 
scatter range is reached. 
7.2 
Elastomer compatibility 
S3A standard specimens according to DIN 53504; test temperature: (150 ± 1) °C; specimen : oil 
ratio according to PV 3323: 1 : 80. 
Sources of supply for the test elastomers FPM SRE AK 6/VW-ACM-Test/VW-VAMAC-Test: 
company Parker-Hannifin GmbH, Packing Division, Post box 1641, D-74306 Bietigheim-Bissingen 
or company EVT, Hohenaspen 14, D-69321 Rauenberg. 


Page 7 
VW 501 01: 2005-03 
 
7.3 
Phosphorous content 
If the phosphorus content is < 0.10 weight percent, functional and/or in-vehicle tests may be 
required for release. Type and scope of these tests shall be coordinated with the Central 
Laboratory (ZL) prior to approval. 
8 
Referenced standards*) 
PV 3323 
Test Vessels and Specimen Holders for Aging Standard Specimens 
PV 3344 
Engine Oil; Elastomer Compatibility Tests 
PV 5106 
Engine Oils; Testing the Wear Behavior 
VW 011 55 
Vehicle Supply Parts; Approval of First Supply and Changes 
VW 911 01 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN 51363-3 
Testing of Petroleum Products – Determination of Phosphorous Content of 
Lubricating Oils and Additives – Part 3: Direct Determination by Optical 
Emission Spectral Analysis with Inductively Coupled Plasma (ICP OES) 
DIN 51377 
Testing of Lubricants – Determination of the Apparent Viscosity of Motor 
Oils at Low Temperature from -5 °C to -35 °C – Using the Cold-Cranking 
Simulator  
DIN 51382 
Testing of Lubricants – Determination of Shear Stability of Lubricating Oils 
Containing Polymers – Method with Diesel Injection Nozzle, Relative 
Viscosity Loss due to Shear 
DIN 51390-2 
Testing of Petroleum Products – Determination of Silicone Content – Part 2: 
Analysis by Wavelength Dispersive X-Ray Spectrometry (XRS) 
DIN 51391-3 
Testing of Lubricants – Determination of the Content of Additive Elements – 
Part 3: Direct Determination of Ca, Mg, Zn and Ba by Optical Emission 
Spectral Analysis with Inductively Coupled Plasma  (ICP OES) 
DIN 51396-1 
Testing of Lubricants – Determination of Wear Elements – Part 1: Direct 
Determination by Optical Emission Spectral Analysis with Inductively 
Coupled Plasma (ICP OES) 
DIN 51451 
Testing of Petroleum Products and Related Products – Analysis by Infrared 
Spectrometry – General Working Principles 
DIN 51562-1 
Viscometry – Measurement of Kinematic Viscosity by Means of the 
Ubbelohde 
Viscometer 
– 
Part 1: 
Viscometer 
Specification 
and 
Measurement Procedure 
DIN 51575 
Testing of Petroleum Products; Determination of Sulfated Ash 
DIN 51577-3 
Testing of Mineral Oil Hydrocarbons and Similar Products; Determination of 
Chlorine and Bromine Content; Mass Fraction < 1000 mg/kg, Analysis by 
Wavelength Dispersive X-Ray Spectrometry (XRS) 
DIN 51757 
Testing of Mineral Oils and Related Materials; Determination of Density 
DIN 53504 
Testing of Rubber; Determination of Tensile Strength at Break, Tensile 
Stress at Yield, Elongation at Break and Stress Values in a Tensile Test 
DIN EN ISO 14596 
Petroleum Products – Determination of Sulphur Content – Wavelength-
Dispersive X-Ray Fluorescence Spectrometry 
                                                
*) 
In this section, terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 


Page 8 
VW 501 01: 2005-03 
 
DIN ISO 3771 
Petroleum Products; Total Base Number; Perchloric Acid Potentiometric 
Titration Method  
ACEA A3/B3-04 
ACEA European Oil Sequences 2004, Class and Category A3/B3 
CEC L-14-A-93 
Evaluation of the Mechanical Shear Stability of Lubricating Oils Containing 
Polymers (Fuel Injection Pump) 
CEC L-36-A-90 
The Measurement of Lubricant Dynamic Viscosity under High Shear 
Conditions  (Ravenfield Viscometer) Second Edition 
CEC L-40-A-93 
Evaporative Loss of Lubricating Oils (Noack Evaporative Tester) 
CEC L-53-95 
Evaluation of Sludge Inhibition Qualities of Motor Oils in Gasoline Engines 
CEC L-088-02 
Evaluation of Oil Viscosity Increase, High Temperature Deposits and Ring 
Sticking in Gasoline Engines 
ASTM D 3228 
Standard Test Method for Total Nitrogen in Lubricating Oils and Fuel Oils by 
Modified Kjeldahl Method 
SAE J 300 12/99 
Engine Oil Viscosity Classification 
2000/53/EC 
Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 September 
2000 on End-of-Life Vehicles 
