# VW50550.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 57 20 3
March 1997
Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons
Pollutant Limitations
VW
505 50
Konzernnorm
Continued on page 2
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
K–GQLB     Engelen
Dicke
Tel: +49-5361-9
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung der Volkswagen AG, EZTN, nicht gestattet.
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung.
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of the Volkswagen Group, EZTN, Standard Department.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Form FE 41 - 10.99
1 
Scope
The limit value requirements of this standard define criteria for reducing polycyclic aromatic hydro-
carbon (PAH) content in engine oils, transmission oils, hydraulic fluids, greases and special lubri-
cants.
2 
Requirements
2.1 
Basic Specifications
Environmental Standard for Vehicles, Specifications acc. to VW 911 00.
2.2 
Validity of Requirements
The limit value requirements under Table 1 must be met for release tests for the operating fluids
listed in Section 1. If statutory regulations go into effect or are developed, new testing methods are
developed, etc., this may make it necessary to change the PAH selection or limit value require-
ments.
2.3 
Specifications in Technical References
PAH content per VW 505 50
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS (Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen!/Check standard for current issue prior to usage)


Page 2
VW 505 50: 1997–03
2.4 
PAH Content
The limit values specified in Table 1 specify the maximum quantities of PAH that may be present in
the currently released operating fluids under Section 1.
Table 1. Determination of PAH acc. to PV 1448
No.
Substance
Limit value
1
benz[a]anthracene
to be specified
2
benzo[a]pyrene
to be specified
3
benzo[b]fluoranthene
to be specified
4
benzo[j]fluoranthene
to be specified
5
benzo[k]fluoranthene
to be specified
6
chrysene
to be specified
7
dibenz[a,h]anthracene
to be specified
8
dibenzo[a,e]pyrene
to be specified
9
dibenzo[a,h]pyrene
to be specified
10
dibenzo[a,i]pyrene
to be specified
11
dibenzo[a,l]pyrene
to be specified
12
indeno[1,2,3–cd]pyrene
to be specified
Total PAH 1 to 12
< 10 ppm
except Benzo[a]pyrene
< 1 ppm
3 
Referenced Standards
PV 1448
Lubricants, PAH Determination
VW 911 00
Environmental Standard for Vehicles, Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids,
 
Policy and Specifications
