# VW50195.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 20 2 
November 2002 
Colorimetric Evaluation of  
Automobile Paint Coatings 
VW 
501 95 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
colorimetry, color change, automobile paint coating, color difference, paint, 
effect paint, solid-color paint 
 
 
Page 1 of 5 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733) 
 
K-QS-31 
Meier 
Tel: -3 62 71 
Frau Dr. Daniel 
Wiesner 
Tel: +49-5361-9-29064 
Sobanski 
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung einer Normenabteilung des Volkswagen Konzerns nicht gestattet. 
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung. 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage.
Form FE 41 - 12.00 
1 
Scope 
This standard defines the evaluation criteria for chromatic aberrations and the measurement and 
evaluation conditions for the use of technical instruments to determine color differences in 
automobile paint coatings. 
2 
Definitions 
2.1 
Solid paint 
Paint structure with color pigments which exhibits mainly diffuse reflection behavior. The color 
impression is largely independent of the direction of lighting and observation. 
2.2 
Effect paint 
Paint structure which contains directional reflective effects (aluminum flakes, Mica ® or the like) as 
well as diffuse reflective color pigments. The color impression is greatly dependent on the chosen 
direction of lighting and observation. 
2.3 
Effect angle (test angle) 
The effect angle γ is the angle measured from the reflection angle of the incidental light in the 
direction of the incidental light bundle (see DIN 6175-2). 
2.4 
Reference 
The reference is the reference specified by the respective process engineering department of the 
marque (original shade, standard, target value, or the like). 
3 
Test 
3.1 
Test apparatus 
Measurement devices which can be used to perform a color measurement according to DIN 5033-
4 (spectral method) in the required test angles shall be used as test apparatus. 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
VW 501 95: 2002-11 
 
3.2 
Test angle 
3.2.1 
Solid paint 
Primary measurements under one lighting and observation angle suffice to describe the color due 
to the reflective behavior of solid paints. 
Suitable measurement shapes are as follows: 45°/0° or 0°/45° (according to DIN 5033-7, sections 
3.2.1 or 3.2.2 respectively). The lighting shape can be circular in the case of shape 45°/0°, the 
observation shape can be circular in the case of shape 0°/45° (see DIN Report 49, section 3.3, 
Measurement Shapes, Method B). 
Different agreements shall be arranged with the relevant responsible departments of the marque. 
3.2.2 
Effect paint 
Effect colors must be measured under 5 observation angles at a lighting angle of 45° or its inverse 
(see DIN 6175-2 section 4.1 + test angle 45°/15° or 15°/45°). 
Different agreements shall be arranged with the relevant responsible departments of the marque. 
3.2.3 
Calibration and test equipment inspections 
Calibration shall be performed according to the manufacturer's specifications. The calibration shall 
be checked by means of a control measurement on a bright color standard. The differences in color 
referred to the initial measurement of the color standard shall be logged for all test angles. The 
color shall differ by no more than 1/6 of the prescribed tolerance. If this value is exceeded, the 
measurement system shall no longer be used within the context of this standard. The test 
equipment shall be monitored at regular intervals through control measurements on multiple bright 
color standards. Test standards whose surface and color appearance remain constant shall be 
used for this purpose. Appropriate measures shall be taken if inconsistent values are determined 
(device adjustment or maintenance). 
3.3 
Test light type/normal observer 
The test light types are D65/10° and F11/10°. 
Different agreements shall be arranged with the relevant responsible departments of the marque. 
3.4 
Specimen appearance 
The specimen surface must not be impaired by surface flaws (dirt, scratches, craters, polish marks, 
etc.). The packaging material shall be selected accordingly. Specimens can only be cleaned in 
exceptional cases. This must be noted in the test record. 


Page 3 
VW 501 95: 2002-11 
 
3.5 
Procedure 
3.5.1 
Measurable components 
The measuring point on the specimen should be as flat as possible since the specified angular 
arrangement cannot be adhered to on curved surfaces. The measuring points should be agreed 
upon with the testers. The color data for a measuring location shall be formed from the mean of at 
least 5 individual measurements. A method that automatically rules out freak values such as SMC, 
for example, shall preferably be selected here. 
The reference and specimen measurements shall be taken at constant room temperature.  
3.5.2 
Non-directly measurable components 
Specimens which cannot be directly measured because of their shape can be checked as follows: 
a) Measurement of a flat test panel painted at the same time (at least 50 mm x 100 mm), with the 
same substrate and structure as the component. There shall be no visual color difference 
between the component and the test panel. This shall serve as a specimen for the color 
measurement. 
b) The measurement shall be performed using suitable gages. 
The exact position of the test panels and the type and setup of the gages shall be agreed with the 
testers. 
3.6 
Reference 
The color changes shall be calculated with respect to the defined reference according to DIN 6174. 
4 
Requirements 
4.1 
Basic specifications 
Revisions of the scaling and weighting factors due to technical factors may be made in the 
production phase. These parameters shall be defined by the relevant process engineering 
department of the marque. 
A visual evaluation shall be performed to check the plausibility of the measured values. Particular 
attention shall be paid to the size and distribution of the effective pigments during this evaluation. 
4.1.1 
Scaling factors 
γ
],
,
,
,
,
[
dh
dC
db
da
dL
S
 
The size of the scaling factors depends on the color locus. It takes into consideration the influence 
of the color locus on the visual acceptance of chromatic aberrations.  
4.1.2 
Weighting factors 
γ
G  
The size of the weighting factors depends on the type of connection (direct or indirect transitions). 


Page 4 
VW 501 95: 2002-11 
 
4.2 
Overall color change 
/
γ
dE  
The overall color change 
/
γ
dE  is calculated as a function of the scaling factors according to: 
 
2
,
*
2
,
*
2
,
*
/
*
*
*






+






+






=
γ
γ
γ
γ
γ
γ
γ
γ
γ
γ
db
da
dL
S
G
db
S
G
da
S
G
dL
dE
 
or 
2
,
*
2
,
*
2
,
*
/
*
*
*






+






+






=
γ
γ
γ
γ
γ
γ
γ
γ
γ
γ
dH
dC
dL
S
G
dH
S
G
dC
S
G
dL
dE
 
4.3 
Release procedure 
The appropriate release procedures (procedure A and procedure B) shall be agreed with the 
relevant process engineering department of the marque. 
4.3.1 
Procedure A 
This procedure evaluates the maximum, angle-dependent overall color change maxdE‘ 
─ 
Acceptance range 0 ≤ maxdE‘ ≤ 1.4 
components/sample parts are in acceptable range. 
─ 
Control range 1.4 < maxdE‘ ≤ 1.7 
components/sample parts are in conditionally acceptable range. 
─ 
Rejection limit maxdE‘ >1.7 
components/sample parts are outside the tolerance range = unacceptable. 
4.3.2 
Procedure B 
This procedure evaluates the overall color change 
/
mdE  determined via the angle: 
Mean overall color change 
∑
°
°
=
=
110
15
'
5
1
'
γ
γ
dE
mdE
 
─ 
Acceptance range 0 ≤ mdE‘≤ 1.4 
components/sample parts are in acceptable range. 
Boundary condition: maxdE‘ ≤ 1.7. 
─ 
Control range 1.4 < mdE‘ ≤ 1.7 
components/sample parts are in conditionally acceptable range. 
Boundary condition: maxdE‘ ≤ 2.0. 
─ 
Rejection limit mdE‘ >1.7 
components/sample parts are outside the tolerance range = unacceptable. 
)
'
max(
'
max
γ
dE
dE =


Page 5 
VW 501 95: 2002-11 
 
5 
Test report 
The test report shall specify the absolute values of the reference, the scaling and weighting factors 
as well as the overall color changes maxdE‘ and/or mdE‘. 
The test report must also contain the following information: 
─ 
Test apparatus 
─ 
Paint number (VW L-...), number and date of issue of the reference used 
─ 
Any observations and changes, such as particles of dirt, hazing, scratches, patchiness, etc. 
─ 
Agreed upon conditions that deviate from this standard (e.g. standardized color values 






γ
γ
γ
,
*
*
dL
S
G
dL
). 
6 
Referenced standards 
DIN 5033-4 
Colorimetry: Spectral Method 
DIN 5033-7 
Colorimetry: Measuring Conditions for Object Colors 
DIN 6172 
Colorimetry: Metamerism Index of Paired Specimens with Illuminant Change 
DIN 6174 
Colorimetric Determination of Color Intervals with Object Colors According to the 
CIELAB Formula 
DIN 6175-2 
Color Tolerances for Automobile Paint Coatings – Part 2: Effect Paint Coatings 
