# VW60361.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 61 00 0 
November 2003 
Mechanical Joining Elements 
Parts Reduction 
General Guidelines 
VW 603 61 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
parts reduction, screw, bolt, nut, cost reduction, joining elements 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 13 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTD, 1733) 
 
EZTD 
Bestenreiner 
 
Tel: +49-5361-9-26513 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 01.03 
Contents 
Page 
1 
Scope.................................................................................................................................. 2 
2 
Requirements...................................................................................................................... 3 
2.1 
General requirements ......................................................................................................... 3 
2.1.1 
Nominal thread diameter..................................................................................................... 3 
2.1.1.1 Metric ISO threads according to VW 116 11....................................................................... 3 
2.1.1.2 Tapping screw threads according to DIN EN ISO 1478...................................................... 3 
2.1.1.3 Screw threads for thermoplasts according to VW 603 62 ................................................... 3 
2.1.2 
Screw lengths...................................................................................................................... 3 
2.1.2.1 Screws/bolts with metric threads......................................................................................... 4 
2.1.2.2 Tapping screw thread.......................................................................................................... 5 
2.1.2.3 Screws for thermoplasts...................................................................................................... 6 
2.1.3 
Drive for screws, bolts and nuts .......................................................................................... 7 
2.1.3.1 Screws/bolts with metric threads......................................................................................... 7 
2.1.3.2 Tapping screws ................................................................................................................... 7 
2.1.3.3 Screws for thermoplasts...................................................................................................... 7 
2.1.3.4 Nuts..................................................................................................................................... 8 
2.2 
Technological specifications ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2.1 
Materials, property classes ................................................................................................. 8 
2.2.1.1 Property classes for screws/bolts........................................................................................ 8 
2.2.1.2 Property classes for nuts..................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2 
Surface protection types for screws, bolts and nuts............................................................ 8 
2.2.3 
Standard parts of stainless steel ......................................................................................... 9 
3 
Survey of screws, screw ends and nuts.............................................................................. 9 
3.1 
Screws and bolts................................................................................................................. 9 
3.2 
Screw ends ....................................................................................................................... 10 
3.3 
Nuts................................................................................................................................... 11 
4 
Costs – general notes ....................................................................................................... 11 
4.1 
Adhesive coating according to DIN 267-27....................................................................... 11 
4.2 
Locking coating according to DIN 267-28 ......................................................................... 11 
4.3 
Stainless steel ................................................................................................................... 11 
4.4 
Tapping screws ................................................................................................................. 11 
5 
Part number request .............................................

Page 2 
VW 603 61: 2003-11 
 
 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Volkswagen standard  
VW 603 61, 1993-11:  
─ 
Full-size screws of shape C removed 
─ 
Thread sizes M4, M14x1.5 and M18x1.5 removed for metric screws, bolts and nuts  
─ 
Thread sizes M24x2, M30x2 and M36x3 added for metric screws, bolts and nuts 
─ 
Thread length for metric screws and bolts was 2 x thread diameter + 25 mm 
─ 
Thread size ST 2.2 for tapping screws removed 
─ 
Drive types: cross recessed, hexagon socket removed 
─ 
Screws for thermoplasts added 
─ 
Screw survey of metric screws/bolts and tapping screws newly defined 
─ 
Survey of screw ends newly defined 
─ 
Nut survey newly defined 
─ 
Washers removed 
─ 
Cost factor removed 
─ 
Pure-type delivery (VW 602 64) removed 
─ 
Standard completely revised 
Previous issues 
1993-11 
1 
Scope 
This standard shall be applied when parts are fastened by means of mechanical joining elements. 
Mechanical joining elements as defined by this standard are screws, bolts and nuts (referred to as 
standard parts below). 
Parts as defined by this standard are individual parts and assemblies (components, black-box 
parts). 
 
Preferred series are defined by the selection of certain geometric and technological characteristics 
from the entire spectrum of standardized joining elements. When consistently applied, these 
preferred series ensure economical use of standard parts, considering the reduction in types (part 
reduction) (also refer to Group Policy IV “Produkt- und Prozessvielfalt – Komplexitätskosten” 
(product and process variety – costs of complexity) and VW 604 57). Preferred parts are identified 
with part status “V” in the NVS (standard parts administration system). 
 


Page 3 
VW 603 61: 2003-11 
 
2 
Requirements 
2.1 
General requirements 
All dimensions are nominal dimensions. It is necessary to refer to the corresponding product 
standards for information about the tolerances. For reasons of process assurance and cost 
reduction, flanged products shall be preferred over combined products (captive screw with washer 
assemblies or nut with washer assemblies that are joined together so that they turn easily) 
Individual parts (screw and washer, or nut and washer) must not be used. 
2.1.1 Nominal thread diameter 
Only the nominal thread diameters or thread sizes defined in Tables 1, 2 and 3 are permissible. 
 
2.1.1.1 Metric ISO threads according to VW 116 11 
See Table 1 
Table 1 
Thread size 
M5 
M6 
M8 
M10
M12 
M14 
M16 
M20 
M24 
M30 
M36 
Coarse thread 
0.8 
1 
1.25
1.5 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
P1) 
Fine-pitch 
thread 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1.5 
1.5 
1.5 
1.5 
2 
2 
3 
1) P = Flank lead 
 
2.1.1.2 Tapping screw threads according to DIN EN ISO 1478 
See Table 2 
Table 2 
Thread size 
ST 2.9 
ST 3.5 
ST 4.2 
ST 4.8 
ST 6.3 
 
2.1.1.3 Screw threads for thermoplasts according to VW 603 62 
See Table 3 
Table 3 
Thread size 
3 
4 
5 
6 
 
2.1.2 Screw lengths 
Only the screw length steps defined in Tables 4 (metric screws and bolts), 6 (tapping screws) and 
7 (screws for thermoplasts) are permissible. 
 


Page 4 
VW 603 61: 2003-11 
 
2.1.2.1 Screws/bolts with metric threads 
See Figure 1 and Table 4 
 
 
Figure 1 – Head shape and chamfered thread end exemplary 
Table 4 – Dimensions in mm 
Screw length (l) 
Length step 
> 6 ≤ 12 
2 
>12 ≤ 20 
4 
> 20 
5 
2.1.2.1.1 Thread lengths – metric thread 
 
2.1.2.1.1.1 All-thread screws, shape A according to DIN 962 
See Figure 2 
 
Figure 2 – Thread nearly up to the head; head and chamfered thread end exemplary 
 
2.1.2.1.1.2 Thread lengths lG: Full-size screws, shape B according to DIN 962 
See Figure 3 and Table 5 
 
Figure 3 – Shank diameter ≈ pitch diameter; head and chamfered thread end exemplary 
________________ 
1) a = Distance of the last complete thread from the contact surface 
2) b = Thread length 
a1) (max. 2 or 3 x flank lead) 
Shank Ø 
Pitch Ø 


Page 5 
VW 603 61: 2003-11 
 
 
Table 5 – Screw lengths depending on thread sizes; dimensions in mm 
Thread size 
Nominal Ø 
M5 
M6 
M8 
M10 
M12x1.5 
M14x15 
M16x1.5 
M20x1.5 
M24x2 
M30x2 
M36x3 
Screw length 
≤ 50 
≤ 70 
≤ 80 
≤ 90 
≤ 100 
Thread length 
almost up to head 
Screw length 
> 55 
> 75 
> 85 
> 95 
> 105 
Thread length 
50 
70 
80 
90 
100 
2.1.2.2 Tapping screw threads 
See Figure 4 and Table 6 
 
Figure 4 – Head shape analogous to preferred shape, chamfered thread end shape R 
according to DIN EN ISO 1478 
Table 6 – Dimensions in mm 
Thread size 
Nominal 
length 
(l) 
ST 2.9 
ST 3.5 
ST 4.2 
ST 4.8 
ST 6.3 
4.5 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5 
 
 
 
 
 
9.5 
 
 
 
 
 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: The permissible nominal lengths are within the area delimited by the 
stepped lines. 


Page 6 
VW 603 61: 2003-11 
 
 
2.1.2.3 Screws for thermoplasts  
See Figure 5 and Table 7 
 
 
Figure 5: Head shape analogous to preferred shape, thread exemplary and chamfered 
thread end not rounded 
Table 7 – Dimensions in mm 
Thread size 
Nominal 
length 
(l) 
3 
4 
5 
6 
8 
 
 
 
 
10 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
 
 
 
16 
 
 
 
 
20 
 
 
 
 
25 
 
 
 
 
30 
 
 
 
 
35 
 
 
 
 
40 
 
 
 
 
45 
 
 
 
 
50 
 
 
 
 
Note: The permissible nominal lengths are within the area 
delimited by the stepped lines. 
 


Page 7 
VW 603 61: 2003-11 
 
 
2.1.3 Drive for screws, bolts and nuts 
2.1.3.1 Screws/bolts with metric threads 
Permissible drive types (also see screw survey in Table 13) 
─ 
Hexagon 
─ 
12-point head (screws of aluminum alloys according to VW 604 69) 
─ 
Multipoint socket 
─ 
Hexalobular socket 
See Table 8 for permissible drive sizes 
Table 8 
Thread sizes 
M5 
M6 
M8 
M10 
M12 
M14 
M16 
M20 
M24 
M30 
M36 
Coarse thread 
0.8 
1 
1.25
1.5 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
P1) 
Fine-pitch thread 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1.5 
1.5 
1.5 
1.5 
2 
2 
3 
Width across flats, hexagon 
8 
10 
13 
16 
18 
21 
24 
33 
36 
46 
55 
Width across flats, 12-point head 
7 
8 
10 
13 
16 
18 
21 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Hexalobular socket 
T25 
T30 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Multipoint socket 
- 
- 
N10 
N12 
N14 
N16 
N18 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Multipoint socket  
(countersunk head screws) 
- 
- 
N8 
N10 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1) P = Flank lead 
2.1.3.2 Tapping screws 
Permissible drive types (also see screw survey in Table 14): 
─ 
Hexagon 
─ 
Hexalobular socket 
See Table 9 for permissible widths across flats and internal drives 
Table 9 
Thread size 
ST 2.9 
ST 3.5 
ST 4.2 
ST 4.8 
ST 6.3 
Width across flats 
5 
5.5 
7 
8 
10 
Hexalobular socket 
T10 
T15 
T20 
T25 
T30 
2.1.3.3 Screws for thermoplasts  
Permissible drive type for hexalobular socket (also see screw survey in Table 14): 
Table 10 
Thread size 
3 
4 
5 
6 
Hexalobular socket 
T10 
T20 
T25 
T30 
 


Page 8 
VW 603 61: 2003-11 
 
2.1.3.4 Nuts 
Permissible drive type (also see nut survey in Table 16): 
─ 
Hexagon 
See Table 11 for permissible widths across flats 
Table 11 
Thread sizes 
M5 
M6 
M8 
M10 
M12 
M14 
M16 
M20 
M24 
M30 
M36 
Coarse thread 
0.8 
1 
1.25
1.5 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
P1) 
Fine-pitch thread 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1.5 
1.5 
1.5 
1.5 
2 
2 
3 
Width across flats, 
hexagon 
8 
10 
13 
16 
18 
21 
24 
33 
36 
46 
55 
1) P = Flank lead 
2.2 
Technological specifications 
2.2.1 Materials, property classes 
2.2.1.1 Property classes for screws/bolts 
Only the property classes 
8.83) according to DIN EN ISO 898-1 
10.93) according to VW 602 50 
are permissible for all screws and bolts specified in section 3, Tables 13 and 14. 
Welded screws only in property class 8.83) according to DIN EN ISO 898-1. 
2.2.1.2 Property classes for nuts 
Only the property classes 
04, 053), 8, 103) according to DIN EN 20 898-2 and DIN EN ISO 898-6 are permissible for all nuts 
specified in section 3, Table 16. Nuts with fine-pitch thread must be quenched and tempered for 
property class 8 and higher. 
2.2.2 Surface protection types for screws, bolts and nuts 
Preferred series from VW 137 50; use cases according to VW 011 10, Table 1. 
Only the surface protection types specified in Table 12 are permissible for threaded standard parts. 
 
__________________________________ 
3) Property class for which quenching and tempering is mandatory 


Page 9 
VW 603 61: 2003-11 
 
Table 12 
Thread type 
Resistance and appearance considering the stated 
restrictions 
Surface code
Price 
factor 1)
No surface protection 
 
Bright 
1 
Delivery protection 
 
Ofl-b140 
1.2 
Heavy-duty surface protection (silver) 
≥ M6 
Ofl-t647 
1.5 
Heavy-duty surface protection (silver) 
< 1,000 MPa 
Ofl-r645 
2.0 
Metric 
Heavy-duty surface protection (black) 
< 1,000 MPa 
Ofl-r677 
2.2 
Heavy-duty surface protection (silver) 
> 1,000 MPa 2) Ofl-r642 
2.0 
Non-metric 
Heavy-duty surface protection (black) 
> 1,000 MPa 2) Ofl-r672 
2.2 
1) The stated price factors are to be viewed merely as guide values. 
2) Permissible exeption for tapping screws and screws for thermoplasts: strength values > 1,000 MPa. 
The supplier shall take suitable measures to prevent brittle fractures. 
2.2.3 Standard parts of stainless steel 
Stainless steel (e.g. A2-70) shall be avoided for cost reasons. A heavy-duty surface protection 
according to Table 12 can possibly be used instead.  
3 
Survey of screws, screw ends and nuts 
Tables 13 to 16 include the various standardized products. They are structured according to the 
manufacturing capabilities of the supplier companies. 
3.1 
Screws and bolts 
The screw types listed in Tables 13 and 14 are preferred shapes. Deviating shapes require the 
approval of department EZTD. 
Table 13 – Metric screws and bolts 
Designation/note 
 
Product 
standard 
Graphical 
representation 
Hexagon shouldered bolt 
 
E VW 605 72 
VW 601 89 
 
> M6  
(multipoint socket) 
VW 603 42 
 
Cheese head screw 
≤ M6  
(hexalobular socket) 
DIN EN ISO 
14579 
 
> M6  
(multipoint socket) 
VW 604 11 
 
Countersunk screw 
≤ M6  
(hexalobular socket) 
DIN EN ISO 
14584 
 
 


Page 10 
VW 603 61: 2003-11 
 
Table 14 – Tapping screws and screws for thermoplasts 
Designation/note 
Product 
standard 
Graphical 
representation 
Hexalobular socket tapping screw with flange 
DIN 34819 
Hexalobular socket pan head tapping screw 
DIN EN ISO 
14585 
Hexalobular socket countersunk head tapping 
screw 
DIN EN ISO 
14586 
Screw for thermoplasts  
VW 603 58  
Shape Q 
3.2 
Screw ends 
The screw ends listed in Table 14 are permissible. Deviating shapes require the approval of 
department EZTD. 
Table 15 
Threads 
Screw end 
Graphical 
representation 
 
 
Basic standard 
 
Tapered bolt 
end (normal 
shape) 
DIN EN ISO 4753 - CH
 
Tip 
DIN EN ISO 4753 -TC 
 
Metric 
screws/bolts 
Insertion pin 
with tip 
VW 604 24 - W 
 
Tapping screws 
Tip, rounded 
DIN EN ISO 1478-R 
 
Screws for 
thermoplasts  
Blunt 
VW 603 62 
 
 
