# VW60250.pdf

Klass.-Nr./Class. No. 61 10 0 
June 2002 
High-Strength Screws and Similar 
Threaded Parts 
Technical Supply Specifications 
VW 
602 50 
Konzernnorm 
 
 
Descriptors: 
bolts, screws, property class, list of suppliers, brittle fracture,  
                       stress corrosion cracking, mechanical properties, high-strength screws 
 
Page 1 of 3 
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility 
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733) 
 
NQ-HK4  Dr. Maikowski  Tel:-4533 
K-QS-32  Dr. Hillert  Tel:-37830 
Humpmayer 
Tel.: +49-5361-929583 
Sobanski 
 
 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of a Standards Department of the Volkswagen Group. 
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen / Check standard for current issue prior to usage. 
Form FE 41 - 12.00 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to VW 602 50: 1994-11: 
─ 
The note on brittle fractures has been added in section 1. 
─ 
References on standards DIN 267 and ISO 4759-1 deleted 
─ 
Permissible pickling mark deviant from DIN EN 6157-3 deleted 
─ 
Reference on rockwell hardness deleted 
─ 
Paragraphs 3.5 and 3.8 added 
─ 
The characteristics and the reference on Formula Q-Konkret in section 4 added 
─ 
Explanation (section 7) deleted 
Previous issues 
1986-05; 1992-06; 1992-11; 1993-06; 1994-11 
1 
 
Scope 
This standard applies to bolts, screws and similar threaded parts made of steel with a tensile 
strength range from 1,040 to 1,370 MPa. It contains the requirements on material and mechanical 
properties deviating from DIN EN ISO 898-1 with the goal to avoid the brittle fracture tendency – in 
particular hydrogen-induced stress corrosion cracking. 
2 
 
Designation 
2.1  
Drawing specifications 
Example for bolts and screws of the property class 10.9 according to DIN EN ISO 898-1 
VW 602 50 – 10.9 
Example for bolts and screws which are quenched and tempered to a certain strength deviating 
from DIN EN ISO 898-1 according to drawing specification: 
VW 602 50 – 115 
The strength is indicated by 1/10 of the minimum tensile strength value, in this case “115” for a 
tensile strength of Rm = (1,150 + 150) MPa. 
2.2  
Coding of bolts and screws 
The bolts and screws shall be provided with the particular strength code (e.g. 10.9 or 115) and the 
manufacturer’s code. 
 
The English translation is believed to be accurate. 
In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
VW 602 50: 2002-05 
 
3 
General requirements 
3.1 
Note for the supplier 
Bolts, screws and threaded parts that fulfill the requirements and characteristics set down in this 
standard shall only be manufactured by authorized suppliers. The list of suppliers can be provided 
by the respective procurement department. 
3.2 
Requirements, properties 
Bolts, screws and threaded parts set down in this standard shall fulfill the material requirements of 
DIN EN ISO 898-1 and the surface requirements of DIN EN 6157-3. 
The screws shall be dephosphated prior to heat treatment. Post quenching and tempering in a 
phosphated state is not permitted. 
Austenizing must take place in a furnace atmosphere that is matched to the carbon content of the 
material or in a protective gas atmosphere. 
Heat treatment is not permitted for systems which are used for case hardening and carbonitriding. 
3.3 
Mechanical properties 
See Table 1 
Table 1  
Property class 
10.9 
12.9 
Tensile strength of bolts and screws with a 
length of ≥ 2.5 x thread diameter d which can be 
subjected to tensile testing 
(1,040 + 150) MPa 
(1,220 + 150) MPa 
Bolts and screws that cannot be subjected to 
tensile testing 
Vickers hardness, F ≥ 98 N a 
Brinell hardness, F = 30 D2 a 
(320 to 370) HV 
(304 to 352) HBW 
(385 to 425) HV 
(366 to 405) HBW 
Surface hardness (according to Vickers) a 
max. 380 HV 0.3 
max. 435 HV 0.3 
a Test according to DIN EN ISO 898-1. 
A conversion of hardness, e.g. according to DIN 50 150, is not permitted. 
3.4  
δ-Ferrite 
Where subjected to tensile stresses the surface must not exhibit a metallographically detectable 
layer enriched with phosphorus (δ-ferrite edge). 
3.5  
Partial decarburization 
For the property class 12.9 the minimum height of the non-decarburized thread zone amounts to 
7/8 H1 (H1: thread depth of the screw thread, see DIN EN ISO 898-1). 
3.6  
Removal of surface coatings 
The removal of already applied surface coatings by electrochemical processes during which 
hydrogen is released (e.g. dezincification) is not permitted. 


Page 3 
VW 602 50: 2002-05 
 
3.7  
Chemical composition 
The ladle analysis (% weight) according to Table 2 is binding for property class 12.9. 
Table 2  
C 
Si 
Mn 
P 
S 
Al 
B 
Cr, Mo, Ni, V
0.28 
to 
0.45 
max. 
0.15 
max. 
0.9 
max. 
0.02 
max. 
0.015 
0.02 
to 
0.05 
max. 
0.005 
Σ ≥ 0.9 
3.8  
Tempering temperature 
The minimum tempering temperature for all materials is 425°C. 
4 
Testing and acceptance 
Production and first sample as well as first supplies shall be delivered with a first sample test report 
according to the respectively valid QA-management agreements for parts to be bought (Formula  
Q-Konkret). The material report must at least contain the results on the basis of specific tests of the 
delivery batch for the following characteristics: 
─ 
Tensile strength and hardness 
─ 
State of carburization, “Free of δ-Ferrite“, microstructure (metallographic evaluation) 
─ 
Surface hardness in HV 0.3 
─ 
Ladle analysis 
─ 
Tempering temperature 
The number of parts to be supplied is indicated by the tester of the first sample. They specify, if 
necessary, also further test characteristics. Whenever the material or the production process are 
changed, resampling and written release become necessary. 
5 
Referenced standards1 
DIN EN 6157-3 
Fasteners; Surface Discontinuities; Bolts, Screws and Studs for Special 
Requirements 
DIN EN ISO 898-1 
Mechanical Properties of Fasteners Made of Carbon Steel and Alloy Steel – 
Part 1: Bolts, Screws and Studs 
                                                
1 In this section terminological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
