# VW91101-S1.pdf

 
Group Standard 
VW 91101 Supplement 1
2007-11
Class. No.: 
97210 
Descriptors:  
hazardous substance, environment, list of substances 
 
Check standard for current issue prior to usage. The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. Numerical 
notation acc. to ISO practice. This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature. 
Page 1 of 2 
Technical responsibility 
Standards 
I/GQ-32  Sylvia Droll 
Tel.: +49-841-89-32308 
K-GQL  Dr. Thomas Lampe    
Tel.: +49-5361-9-23368 
 
I/EZ-11   Martin Conrads 
Tel.: +49-841-89-33115 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior permission of a Standards department within the Volkswagen 
Group. Contract partners shall obtain the standard only through the B2B supplier platform www.vwgroupsupply.com. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
 
vwnorm-2007-07 
 
 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles 
Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids 
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances; Special Requirements of the 
Volkswagen Group 
 
Previous issues 
1996-08; 2001-05 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Volkswagen standard VW 91101, Supp-
lement 1, 2001-05: 
─ 
List of hazardous substances removed 
─ 
Section 3 added 
Contents 
 
Page 
1 
Scope................................................................................................................................1 
2 
Definitions .........................................................................................................................2 
3 
Requirements....................................................................................................................2 
3.1 
Wood.................................................................................................................................2 
3.2 
Radioactivity......................................................................................................................2 
3.3 
1,3-di-o-tolylguanidine .......................................................................................................2 
4 
Referenced documents .....................................................................................................2 
 
1 
Scope 
Environmental policy: hazardous substances prohibited by the Volkswagen Group, in addition to 
the regulations specified in VW91101. 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
VW 91101 Supplement 1: 2007-11 
 
This standard contains specifications on substances, preparations and products the use of which is 
subject to mandatory declaration or entirely prohibited in products of the Volkswagen Group.  
Please note: substances subject to mandatory declaration shall be indicated when input into the 
IMDS. The use as a wildcard or confidential basic substance is thus not permissible. 
2 
Definitions 
See VW91101, Section 2. 
3 
Requirements 
3.1 
Wood 
The use of wood is subject to mandatory declaration and shall be designated with the applicable 
abbreviations acc. to DIN 4076. 
3.2 
Radioactivity 
The substances, preparations, and products listed in VW91101, Section 1, must not emit ionizing 
radiation that exceeds natural radiation. 
3.3 
1,3-di-o-tolylguanidine 
The use of di-ortho-tolylguanidine (N, N´-Bis(2-methylphenyl)guanidine, CAS No. 97-39-2) as vul-
canization accelerator is subject to mandatory declaration. 
4 
Referenced documents 
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary for application. In this Section, termi-
nological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
VW 91101 
Vehicle Environmental Standard; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids; 
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
DIN 4076 
Terms and Symbols in the Field of Wood; Species of Wood 
 
 
