# VW91101.pdf

 
Group Standard 
VW 91101
2007-11
Class. No.: 
97210 
Descriptors:  
hazardous substance, environment, list of substances 
 
Check standard for current issue prior to usage. The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case of discrepancies the German version shall govern. Numerical 
notation acc. to ISO practice. This electronically generated standard is authentic and valid without signature. 
Page 1 of 4 
Technical responsibility 
Standards 
I/GQ-32  Sylvia Droll 
Tel.: +49-841-89-32308 
K-GQL  Dr. Thomas Lampe    
Tel.: +49-5361-9-23368 
 
I/EZ-11   Martin Conrads 
Tel.: +49-841-89-33115 
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior permission of a Standards department within the Volkswagen 
Group. Contract partners shall obtain the standard only through the B2B supplier platform www.vwgroupsupply.com. 
 VOLKSWAGEN AG 
 
vwnorm-2007-07 
 
 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles 
Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating Fluids 
Avoidance of Hazardous Substances 
 
Previous issues 
1993-11; 1996-08; 1996-10; 1999-04; 2001-05; 2004-04 
Changes 
The following changes have been made as compared to Volkswagen standard  
VW 91101: 2004-04: 
─ 
Section 4.2: 
requirements specified in more detail; reference to EC regulation  
 
 
 
1907/2006 ("REACH") added 
─ 
Section 4.3:  
new 
Contents 
 
Page 
1 
Scope................................................................................................................................2 
2 
Description ........................................................................................................................2 
3 
Definitions .........................................................................................................................2 
4 
Requirements....................................................................................................................2 
4.1 
Emission restrictions in the vehicle interior ........................................................................2 
4.2 
Substances subject to mandatory declaration and banned substances .............................3 
4.3 
Material bans in the Volkswagen Group exceeding the requirements of VDA 232-101......3 
5 
Referenced documents .....................................................................................................3 
 
QUELLE: NOLIS


Page 2 
VW 91101: 2007-11 
 
1 
Scope 
Environmental policy: policy and specifications acc. to 91100. 
This standard provides information on substances, preparations, and products the use of which is 
banned, restricted, or subject to other requirements according to the following regulations: 
─ 
laws in countries which are sales markets for vehicles produced by the Volkswagen Group or 
─ 
internal decisions within the Volkswagen Group, independent of legal regulations and the loca-
tion of use. 
  
The standard applies to substances, preparations and products which are used in the vehicle or in 
vehicle parts, and which are used as operating fluids or produced during the operation of the vehi-
cle or during its repair and maintenance. 
The Environmental Standard for Vehicles relates to the use and handling of such materials which 
are known to contain or which could potentially contain hazardous substances. 
In this regard, it is indifferent whether the undesired substances are introduced as additives or as 
impurities or whether they result at a later point in time. 
2 
Description 
The following entry shall be made in the technical documentation concerned: 
Avoidance of hazardous substances according to VW 91101. 
3 
Definitions 
Product 
Object which consists of one or several substances or preparations. Its de-
sign, surface, or shape is specified in the product engineering process and is 
more important for the definition of its function than its chemical composition. 
Substance 
Chemical element and its compounds in natural form or artificially produced. A 
substance may include additives required to maintain product stability and 
impurities introduced due to the production method. It does not include sol-
vents which can be separated from the substance without adversely affecting 
the substance’s stability and without modifying its composition. 
Preparation 
Mixture or solution consisting of two or several substances 
 
4 
Requirements 
4.1 
Emission restrictions in the vehicle interior 
The occupants of vehicles produced by the Volkswagen Group must not experience any effects 
─ 
threatening their health or 
─ 
compromising their well-being. 
  


Page 3 
VW91101: 2007-11 
 
The following regulations shall be complied with: 
─ 
VW 50180, Components in Passenger Compartment; Emission Behavior 
─ 
For Audi AG, additionally: VW 50179, Emissionsverhalten bei Bauteilen im Fahrzeuginnen-
raum (Emission Behavior of Components in the Vehicle Interior – only available in German) 
4.2 
Substances subject to mandatory declaration and banned substances 
VDA 232-101 (corresponds to GADSL, see www.gadsl.org) shall apply. 
The requirements shall be complied with by the supplier at the time of acceptance of the develop-
ment results by the ordering entity of the Volkswagen Group. If the requirements are enhanced and 
thus become more severe after the acceptance, the supplier shall inform the head of the responsi-
ble engineering department of the ordering entity of the Volkswagen Group in order to agree upon 
the resulting measures to be taken. 
The applicable limit values of all substances marked as "P" (prohibited) in the VDA 232-101 must 
not be exceeded in the specified fields of application. 
Products and preparations shall only contain or release substances which, if applicable, are regis-
tered and approved for the intended applications according to EC regulation No. 1907/2006 
("REACH") within the applicable deadlines. 
The following requirements shall be complied with in addition: 
─ 
1999/45/EC 
─ 
2000/53/EC 
─ 
67/548/EEC 
─ 
76/769/EEC 
4.3 
Material bans in the Volkswagen Group exceeding the requirements of VDA 232-101 
If regulations or bans for substances or materials exceeding the regulations specified in Sections 
4.1 and 4.2 are issued by the Volkswagen Group, these are specified in VW 91101, Supplement 1, 
which is regularly updated and which shall be complied with by the supplier for new developments 
at the time of acceptance of the development results by the ordering entity of the Volkswagen 
Group. If the requirements are enhanced and thus become more severe after the acceptance, the 
supplier shall inform the head of the responsible engineering department of the ordering entity of 
the Volkswagen Group in order to agree upon the corresponding measures to be taken. 
VW91101, Supplement 1, contains precise specifications  
─ 
on the prohibition of the use of specific substances,  
─ 
on limit values for the contents or the release of specific substances or  
─ 
on mandatory declaration. 
If the regulations referenced in Section 5 are enhanced and thus become more severe than the 
regulations stipulated in VW 91101, Supplement 1, the more severe requirements resulting from 
Section 5 shall be applicable in any case. 
5 
Referenced documents 
The following documents cited in this standard are necessary for application. In this Section, termi-
nological inconsistencies may occur as the original titles are used. 
VW 50179 
Emissionsverhalten bei Bauteilen im Fahrzeuginnenraum (Emission Behav-
ior of Components in the Vehicle Interior – only available in German) 
VW 50180 
Components in Passenger Compartment; Emission Behavior 


Page 4 
VW 91101: 2007-11 
 
VW 91100 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Policy, Specifications 
VW 91101, Supple-
ment 1 
Environmental Standard for Vehicles; Vehicle Parts, Materials, Operating 
Fluids; Avoidance of Hazardous Substances; Special Requirements of the 
Volkswagen Group 
1999/45/EC 
Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 May 1999 
concerning the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative 
provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging 
and labeling of dangerous preparations 
2000/53/EC 
Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 September 
2000 on end-of-life vehicles 
1907/2006/EC 
Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council of 18 December 
2006 concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction 
of Chemicals (REACH), establishing a European Chemicals Agency, a-
mending Directive 1999/45/EC and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) No 
793/93 and Commission Regulation (EC) No 1488/94 as well as Council 
Directive 76/769/EEC and Commission Directives 91/155/EEC, 93/67/EEC, 
93/105/EC and 2000/21/EC 
67/548/EEC 
Council Directive of 27 June 1967 on the approximation of laws, regulations 
and administrative provisions relating to the classification, packaging and 
labelling of dangerous substances 
76/769/EEC 
Council Directive of 27 July 1976 on the approximation of laws, regulations 
and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to restrictions 
on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and prepara-
tions 
VDA 232-101 
Global list of substances subject to mandatory declaration in the automotive 
industry; German Version of the "Global Automotive Declarable Substance 
List (GADSL)" 
 
