# 大众汽车标准_eVW_50185.001001939682643595.pdf

Klass.-Nr. 50 32 1
October 2000
Vehicle Components
Resistance to Open Air Weathering
VW
501 85
Konzernnorm
Descriptors: Open-Air Weathering, Weathering Stability, Florida, Kalahari, Arizona
Continued on pages 2 to 8
Fachverantwortung/Responsibility
Normung/Standards (EZTN, 1733)
K-QS-31        Ackermann  Tel: 38255        Dr. Schwarzer
Wiesner
Tel: +49-5361-929064
Sobanski
Vertraulich. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. Weitergabe oder Vervielfältigung ohne vorherige schriftl. Zustimmung der Volkswagen AG, EZTN, nicht gestattet.
Vertragspartner erhalten die Norm nur über die zuständige Beschaffungsabteilung.
Confidential. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be transmitted or reproduced without the prior written permission of the Volkswagen Group, EZTN, Standard Department.
Parties to a contract can only obtain this standard via the responsible procurement department.
 VOLKSWAGEN AG
Form FE 41 - 10.99
1 
Scope
This standard describes the testing of resistance to open air weathering of components of the pas-
senger compartment, the vehicle skin and add-on parts in the vehicle in the installed condition. It
must be applied in the development and series monitoring of vehicles, components and material
samples. The application of this standard is intended to ensure sufficient resistance to open air
weathering.
2 
Definitions
The following definitions are valid for the application of this standard:
2.1 
Resistance to Open Air Weathering
Vehicles, assemblies (ASSY) and components are considered open-air weathering resistant if no
complaints are detected during testing, after a test duration of one year in humid heat (Florida) and
after a test duration of one year in dry heat (Kalahari/Arizona).
Complaints are defined as:
─ 
Material changes in the form of cracks, holes, fractures, disintegration (e.g., softening)
─ 
Component deformations in the form of dents, waves, bell mouths, etc.
─ 
Insufficiently secure fit
─ 
Defective performance
─ 
Delamination (in the material or between bonds)
─ 
Deposits if not removable by conventional customer methods (e.g., car wash)
─ 
Color shifts
─ 
Brightness changes (brightness change from gray-scale level 5.0 to 4.0 after 1 year open-air
weathering permissible (EN 20 105-A02))
─ 
Changes in degree of glossiness (deviation in degree of glossiness < 10 % from initial glossi-
ness level after 1 year open-air weathering permissible).
Deviations specified in drawings or technical supply specifications are not grounds for complaints.
3 
Designation
The drawings and/or technical supply specifications of the relevant components must include the
following entry:
Resistance to open air weathering VW 50185: No complaint.
Any deviating and additional specifications must be defined in the drawings and/or technical supply
specifications.
The English translation is believed to be accurate. In case
of discrepancies the German version shall govern.
QUELLE: NOLIS (Norm vor Anwendung auf Aktualität prüfen!/Check standard for current issue prior to usage)


Page 2
VW 501 85: 2000-10
4 
Requirements
4.1 
Basic Specifications
Prior to application of this standard, the user must ensure that the current version of the docu-
mentation is used. This can be obtained from NOLIS or the author.
4.1.1 
Additional Resistance to Open Air Weathering
The additional requirement of 2 years resistance to open air weathering applies to the following
components/materials:
─ 
Paint (exterior)
─ 
Front headlights (lenses)
The following also applies on principle: after 2 years open-air weathering, no complaints such as
material disintegration, detachment (delamination), cracks, fractures or holes may occur, which
noticeably impair the function of the component or cause its failure.
4.2 
Validity
The requirement "resistance to open air weathering per VW 501 85: no complaints" applies to
drawings and technical supply specifications of all
─ 
Components
─ 
Textiles
─ 
Fiber materials
─ 
Sandwich structures
─ 
Coatings (protective and/or decorative)
─ 
Films
─ 
Foamed plastics
─ 
etc.
of metals, polymers or natural materials (e.g., wood, leather).
Components of the engine compartment are excepted because their function must be sufficiently
ensured by environmental cycle tests and corrosion tests.
4.3 
Documentation of Resistance to Open Air Weathering
Documentation shall be provided in the course of open-air weathering of the assemblies (ASSY)
and the components in as-installed condition on vehicles at the open-air weathering proving
grounds used by the VW Group.
Prior to an open-air weathering test by the VW Group, a risk assessment by means of the short-
term test methods listed in Table 1 is required of the supplier in all cases, in particular with the use
of new materials and/or new production methods and locations.
For new systems not yet in use in the Group, the fulfillment of the 2-year simulation cycle per PV
3929 and PV 3930 must be checked.
It is permissible to perform the risk assessment in the non-installed condition per section 5.2.2
“Components and Material Samples”, for example on complete components/assemblies.


Page 3
VW 501 85: 2000-10
Table 1: 
Short-term test method
Laboratory test PV 1303 (“high-temperature light exposure” for interior components)
Laboratory test PV 1323 (“Sun test”, fade to gray test for add-on parts, only for PP/EPDM-based
and TPE materials)
Laboratory test PV 3929 (“Kalahari test”, dry heat simulation, test for skin and add-on parts)
Laboratory test PV 3930 (“Florida test”, humid heat simulation, test for skin and add-on parts)
Laboratory test per VDA Test Sheet 621-430 (Test of Clear Coats’ Resistance to Cracking)
Weather simulation based on DIN 75 220
Temperature cycle test PV 2005
Aging at elevated temperature per drawing or agreement, if necessary, if it can be documented
that this tests for damage due to open air weathering (e.g., DIN 53497, Meth. B).
5 
Test
5.1 
Proving Grounds
The VW Group currently uses the following grounds for aging: Kalahari (dry heat), Arizona (dry
heat) and Florida (humid heat).
5.1.1 
Weather Data
The operator of the proving grounds must continually record and document the weather data. The
weather data must be made available to users of the grounds (VW intranet, CD-ROM, or in paper
form). The data are archived in digital form.
Weather data that must be recorded:
─ 
Air temperature
─ 
Global irradiation
─ 
UV radiation
─ 
Duration of sunshine
─ 
Wind velocity
─ 
Wind direction
─ 
Amount of precipitation
─ 
Wet time
─ 
Relative humidity
5.2 
Aging the Test Objects
5.2.1 
Vehicles
To determine the critical case, the darkest possible (preferably black) body colors should be se-
lected. All closable air vents and windows must be kept closed during the test duration.


Page 4
VW 501 85: 2000-10
5.2.1.1 Surface
─ 
Grass (humid heat)
─ 
Asphalt (dry heat)
The purpose of the grass is to increase the effect of the humidity. The asphalt is used to increase
the thermal stress on the vehicle. The asphalt can be replaced with black gravel with documenta-
tion of its suitability.
The vehicle storage areas shall be set up so that the vehicles are not in standing water for long
periods in case of hard rains.
5.2.1.2 Orientation of the Vehicles
The vehicles should on principle be oriented in the direction of the geometric poles. In the northern
hemisphere, the front of the vehicles should face southward and in the southern hemisphere
northward. Other orientations must be agreed upon between the client and the proving grounds.
5.2.1.3 Unusual Aspects of Specific Parts
─ 
Sun visors: front passenger side folded down, driver’s side up on the roofliner, 3rd sun visor in
a vehicle folded down, in the rest of the vehicle up.
─ 
Headrests: front passenger side pushed inward, driver’s side pulled out at front and rear.
─ 
Center arm rest: folded down.
─ 
Steering wheel: adjusted to highest position.
─ 
Ventilation: all vents closed.
─ 
Cargo area shade: rolled up in the vehicle, operated 1x per week, also pulled out without oper-
ating in the break out box (alternatively in another vehicle).
─ 
Window shades: see cargo area shade.
─ 
Glass roof: inside cover (blind) closed halfway.
─ 
Folding table (e.g., Multivan T4): folded up 1 x per week from 9:00 am to 6:00 pm.
─ 
Cupholder in window ledge (e.g., Multivan T4): see folding table.
Note: All other cupholders are on principle folded in for testing.
5.2.1.4 Special Case: Cabrio Top
1st week:
1st day:
open and close after 1 h between 10:00 am and 3:00 pm
 
2nd day:
open 8:00 am, close 6:00 pm,
3rd - 6th day: top closed
 
7th day:
top closed, dry cleaning with soft brush
2nd - 3rd week:
same as 1st week
4th week:
same as 1st week, after cleaning with brush, also wet cleaning with
water and soft brush
In case of wind panel: test pulled in.


Page 5
VW 501 85: 2000-10
5.2.2 
Components and Material Samples
5.2.2.1 Shelves
Closed shelves (90° and 5° to the horizontal) are available for standard aging tests. The shelves
are for open-air weathering of skin and add-on parts. The aging type for components and material
samples should be selected such that the radiation and temperature load is comparable to the
situation on the vehicle (possibly by insulating the bottom of the component). This must be ensured
by means of comparative temperature measurements.
Surface: grass (humid heat), sand (dry heat).
The surface may only be changed with documentation of suitability and in consultation with
K-QS-31.
Orientation: according to section 5.2.1.2
Examples:
─ 
90° shelves: wheel trim elements, radiator grilles, front and rear emblems, side turn signal
lamps
─ 
5° shelves: plastic fenders, headlights, taillamp assemblies, windshield wipers
Notes:
Components with high thermal load such as drip moldings, protective side moldings or water box
covers should only be tested in the vehicle (test vehicles) since the thermal load is too low in shelf
aging.
5.2.2.2 Glassed-In Test Box
The glassed-in test boxes are used for open-air testing of components of the vehicle interior. The
aging type for components and material samples should be selected such that the radiation and
temperature load is comparable to the situation in the vehicle. This must be ensured by means of
comparative temperature measurements.
Surface: grass (humid heat), sand (dry heat).
The surface may only be changed with documentation of suitability and in consultation with
K-QS-31.
Orientation: according to section 5.2.1.2
Boxes of different dimensions and glazings are available (see Table 2).
Table 2: 
Dimensions and Glazings of Test Boxes (in mm)
Type
Width
Depth
Height 1
Height 2
Glazing Angle
Passenger car
standard 1
1,650
625
460
820
30°
Passenger car
standard 2 (e.g.,
New Beetle, Audi
A2)
1,900
1,100
800
1,600
36°
MPV
1,650
850
650
1,140
30°
Commercial
trucks
1,900
850
550
1,400
45°
Standard glazings:
- Single-pane glass, clear (3.1 mm thick),
- compound glass, clear (4.9 mm thick).
Use of other glazings in consultation with the proving grounds. In the Arizona Proving Grounds,
tempered safety glass and compound glass are also available for glazing as tinted glass (green
glass).


Page 6
VW 501 85: 2000-10
Figure 1: Spectral luminous transmittance of the standard glazings
compound glass, clear and tempered safety glass, clear
A Luminous transmittance in %
S Data from PPG Industries
D tempered safety glass
F compound glass 
G Wavelength in nm
The test boxes are tried and tested for the standard aging of instrument panels, steering wheels,
load compartment covers and rear shelves.
Notes:
Interior parts made of sensitive materials for high-quality equipment versions (wood decor, Alcan-
tara, etc.) must be tested in the vehicle since in most cases the load in the glassed-in box is too
high (exception: rear shelf and instrument panel).
6 
Cleaning the Test Objects
Vehicles:
Skin:
Wet cleaning 1x per week, preferably with high-pressure cleaner,
otherwise with soft sponge; stuck-on foreign matter soaked off
with water.
Interior:
Vacuum 1x per month, wet cleaning 1x per month with water and
hand soap, removal of fog residue with a mixture of isopropyl al-
cohol and water.
Test boxes:
Windows:
Wet cleaning inside and out 1x per week, specimen as needed
(as in vehicle interior)
Shelves:
Wet cleaning of the test objects 1x per week (as vehicle)
The wet cleaning is performed with tap water (drinking water).


Page 7
VW 501 85: 2000-10
7 
Evaluation
The test objects (vehicles, assemblies, components and material samples) must be evaluated only
by persons who have been specially trained at the open-air weathering proving grounds. The
evaluation is performed only on washed, dry test objects with suitable weathering.
Note:
Cracks in anodized moldings visible only in direct sunlight and at maximum component tempera-
ture.
The complaints are to be characterized by:
─ 
the specification for the component
─ 
the type of damage
─ 
the evaluation of the damage according to the current Group standard (see Table 3).
The test objects are evaluated according to the standard every 2 months by proving grounds per-
sonnel. Deviations must be agreed upon between the client and the proving grounds.
Note:
Prior to aging the test objects (particularly the vehicles) their initial condition must be recorded by
the client in writing.
8 
Documentation of the Test Results
Each client receives a report from the specific proving grounds, which documents the complaints
with text and pictures. The damage evaluation according to the current Group standard must be
stated as well.
The documentation can be provided in paper or digital form.
9 
Returning the Test Objects
After completion of the open air weathering test, the aged test objects are returned to the client.


Page 8
VW 501 85: 2000-10
Table 3: 
ABC Evaluation Key
Complaint category
A Complaint
B Complaint
C Complaint
Complaint points
100
90
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
Complaint evalua-
tion
Safety risk,
unsaleable
vehicle, tow-
in
Unacceptable, certain to
cause customer complaints
Extreme surface complaint
Unpleasant, disruptive,
complaints can also be expected
from average customer,
low level of quality
Needs improve-
ment,
complaint can be
expected from de-
manding
customers,
quality requirement
is not met
If frequent,
complaints can be ex-
pected from
demanding customers
Effect on customers
Vehicle not
available
Vehicle requires unex-
pected repairs
Customer will make complaint at
next scheduled
maintenance
Customer may
expect correction
of complaint
Customer complains about
level of quality
Detectable
By all customers
By the average customer
By demanding customers and trained auditors taking into consideration the internal quality standards
Correction of the
complaint
Complaint must be corrected, ensure that no vehicle with this complaint reaches
the customer
Corrective meas-
ures in standard
production
Introduction of measures to correct the cause so that the complaint does not oc-
cur again
If the complaint is frequent, intro-
duce remedial measures
Watch, pre-
vent from
worsening
Note: Points assigned in multiples of ten
