# 通用内饰GMW14867-2010.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE 
ENGINEERING 
STANDARDS 
Material Specification 
Paints 
GMW14867 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance Requirements of Paints on Interior Plastic Substrates 
 
 
© Copyright 2010 General Motors Company All Rights Reserved 
June 2010 
Originating Department: North American Engineering Standards 
Page 1 of 5 
 
1 Scope 
Note: Nothing in this standard supercedes 
applicable laws and regulations. 
Note: In the event of conflict between the English 
and domestic language, the English language shall 
take precedence. 
This specification supercedes all prior regional 
specifications for interior paint performance for the 
General Motors Corporation and encompasses 
interior physical, environmental and chemical 
durability requirements for all interior coatings on 
plastic substrates. These coating systems can be 
metallic or non-metallic colors in both hard and soft 
haptic technologies. Coatings covered by this 
specification can be applied to plastic substrates, 
flexible substrates, rigid substrates or integral skin 
foam systems. 
Note: The requirements of this edition of 
GMW14867 must be applied at latest with the 
beginning of model 
year 2012. Any other 
deviations in currently running projects must be 
agreed 
with 
the 
responsible 
GM 
materials 
engineer. 
1.1 Material Description. The extended durability 
testing in this specification is required for corporate 
approval 
of 
all 
new 
interior 
paints. 
The 
requirements listed in this specification must be 
met by all paint systems used in GM vehicle 
interiors. This specification will be used to 
generically qualify red and blue colored paints for 
global paint technology approval. When a paint 
system is generically approved on a specific 
plastic, the paint system will then be approved to 
the appropriate interior paint specification and 
entered into MATSPC. Once MATSPC approval is 
granted to a new paint system on a given class of 
plastics, specific color approval and Approval Paint 
on Plastic Systems (APOPS) testing (reference 
GMW14797, for interior trim components), will be 
required to complete the approval on that part. The 
approved paint system will then be entered into the 
APOPS database or documented through written 
approval 
from 
responsible 
GM 
Materials 
Engineering department. The test requirements for 
APOPS testing will be found in Table A4, of 
GMW14797. 
Note: In the case where parts are fabricated from 
pre-painted material, the paint film shall be capable 
of withstanding all the necessary fabrication 
processes, 
including 
forming 
stresses 
and 
temperatures, in addition to specified requirements 
as detailed in this specification. 
1.2 Symbols. Not applicable. 
1.3 Typical Applications. Not applicable. 
1.4 Remarks. Not applicable. 
2 References 
Note: Only the latest approved standards are 
applicable unless otherwise specified. 
2.1 External Standards/Specifications. 
ISO 105-A02 
SAE J1545 
ISO 6603-2 
SAE J1885 
ISO 20433 
 
2.2 GM Standards/Specifications. 
GMW3001 
GMW14444 
GMW3059 
GMW14445 
GMW3205 
GMW14698 
GMW3208 
GMW14729 
GMW3221 
GMW14797 
GMW3235 
GMW14829 
GMW3417 
GMW15542 
GMW14162 
GMW15543 
GMW14334 
GMW15634 
3 Requirements 
Single layer straight shade paint systems tested on 
panels must be identical to the production intent 
paint 
systems 
including 
paint 
manufacturers 
recommended film builds. All testing must be done 
in triplicate on painted red and blue panels at a 
Primary Gloss C (PGC) gloss, (gloss of 2 to 3 at a 
60° angle), for initial paint technology approval. 
Single layer metallic paints must be submitted in 
bright colors similar to Nova Silver and paint film 
must be at between 12 and 17 μm. 
Multi-layer and laser etch paints must meet the 
requirements of this specification and additional 
requirements in GMW15542 and GMW15543. 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 11/01/2010 03:30:30 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,`,,,```,``,,`,`````,`,,,,,,,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14867 
 
© Copyright 2010 General Motors Company All Rights Reserved 
June 2010 
Page 2 of 5 
 
3.1 
Requirements 
on 
Test 
Specimens. 
Reference GMW3221 Code B. 
3.1.1 Sample Preparation and Identification. 
The plastic substrates and paint system shall be 
identified per 3.1.1.1 and 3.1.1.2. 
3.1.1.1 Plastic Substrate. 
 
Vendor 
 
Compound number 
 
Sample plaque thickness in mm 
3.1.1.2 Paint System. 
 
Vendor 
 
Paint formulation number 
 
The paint process guidelines of the paint 
supplier 
including 
coating 
thickness 
requirements shall be followed. 
3.2 Conditioning. Painted samples shall be 
subjected to the tests listed below after a minimum 
aging period of 72 h at room temperature following 
the baking or drying cycle. 
3.3 Cure Test. The cloth to be used to perform the 
cure test shall be a crock cloth per ISO 20433. The 
solvent used for the cure test shall be 92% 
minimum ethyl alcohol, denatured. There shall be 
no paint film degradation after the following test 
method: 
 
Five back and forth rub strokes, approximately 
50 mm in length, as applied with firm finger 
pressure 
using 
a 
cloth 
saturated 
with 
denatured ethyl alcohol. 
Note: There may be some visible transfer of color 
agents associated with this procedure but there 
must not be any film degradation visible when 
viewed with a 10 X magnifying glass. 
3.4 As-Received Paint Adhesion. Test per 
GMW14829 with a minimum of 95%, Rating 1, of 
the paint remaining in the cross hatch area. 
3.4.1 Brittleness of the paint film, as evidenced by 
chipping or flaking while scribing the test lines shall 
be cause for rejection. 
3.5 Humidity Test. (GMW14729) Samples shall 
be exposed to 144° of GMW14729 either Option A 
or B. After the 144 h humidity exposure the painted 
samples will be removed from the humidity 
chamber and blotted dry with an absorbent paper 
or cloth. 
3.5.1 There shall be no evidence of blistering, 
water spotting or gloss change when examined 
one minute after removal from the humidity 
cabinet. 
3.5.2 One (1) h after removal from humidity 
chamber the samples shall pass the cross hatch 
adhesion test GMW14829 with a rating of 1. 
3.6 Effects of Cleaners and Lotions. 
3.6.1 Cleaners. Parts in the as-received condition 
shall be resistant to attack from cleaners when 
tested as follows: 
3.6.1.1 Tests shall be performed with the crock 
cloth per ISO 20433. Place ten drops of each liquid 
cleaner onto the painted surface. Allow liquid to 
remain on surface for 1 minute prior to testing. 
Perform ten back and forth rubs approximately 
50 mm in length on the painted surface with the 
specified crock cloth using firm finger pressure. 
Evaluate the color transfer to the crock cloth and 
any color change on the test plaque to the grey 
scale per ISO 105-A02. A reading of four will be 
considered a pass. 
 
Sonax Window Cleaner 338241 (Europe) 
 
Ammoniated Window Cleaner (North America) 
 
Sonax Interior Cleaner 321200 (Europe) 
 
Fantastik or Formula 409 (North America) 
 
Sonax Stain Remover 653200 (Europe) 
 
Armor-all Cleaner (North America) 
 
Armor-all Protectant (North America) 
For all other regions; if cleaners listed are not 
available, use appropriate cleaners commonly 
used for automotive interior. 
3.6.2 
Sunscreen 
and 
Insect 
Repellent 
Resistance. 
3.6.2.1 Three (3) red and blue painted panels of 
each substrate shall be submitted to General 
Motors Materials Engineering for testing for 
sunscreen and insect repellent resistance per 
GMW14445. Tested paint surface shall not show 
more than a two rating to be considered a pass. 
The exposed area of coating shall not show 
removal after a 1 mm hemispherical tip weighted 
with an 8 N load has been dragged across the 
surface per GMW14698. 
3.6.2.2 For metallic coating technology approval, 
General Motors Materials Engineering must also 
test three panels of the target substrates coated 
with a metallic pigmented paint heavily loaded with 
metal flake pigments. Those panels must meet the 
requirements per 3.6.2.2.1 and 3.6.2.2.2. 
3.6.2.2.1 Prepare each panel for sunscreen lotion 
exposure per GMW14445 in two locations on each 
panel. After exposure cycle, inspect coating for 
staining or any other surface defects as a result of 
the sunscreen lotion exposure. There shall be no 
extremely noticeable effects of the paint surface 
after exposure to the sunscreen lotion. After 
completing sunscreen lotion exposure, run scratch 
resistance test per GMW14698, Method A or B, 
over one of the exposed areas of the paint film. 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 11/01/2010 03:30:30 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,`,,,```,``,,`,`````,`,,,,,,,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14867 
 
© Copyright 2010 General Motors Company All Rights Reserved 
June 2010 
Page 3 of 5 
 
Coating must not show indication of removal at 
8 N. 
3.6.2.2.2 Thirty (30) minutes after removal from 
oven, run 50 cycles of crockmeter test per 
ISO 20433, dry method, over other sunscreen 
lotion exposed area. Coating must not be 
penetrated through to substrate. 
3.6.2.3 Both straight shades and metallic paints 
may show severe staining of the paint, after 
sunscreen lotion testing, but no lifting of the paint 
from the substrate. If staining of the paint is 
objectionable, with no adhesion issues, then one of 
the tested panels, of each substrate may be placed 
in an oven at 80°C for 4 h. The baked panels after 
removal from the oven and compared against the 
unbaked panels should show less staining of the 
paint. 
If GM engineer judges that the staining of the paint 
is still too severe or if coating lifts from substrate, 
the paint technology is rejected. 
3.7 Color Crock ISO 20433. The painted finish on 
the as-received samples shall be tested by doing 
ten complete back and forth strokes when tested 
per ISO 20433, dry method. Evaluate the color 
change on the test plaque to the grey scale per 
ISO 105-A02. A reading of four will be considered 
a pass. 
3.8 Fogging GMW3235 Volatility of Organic 
Constituents. (GMW3235, Method B). 
3.8.1 Gravimetric procedure: Bath Temperature 
to be set at T2, cooling temperature of 21°C, 18 h 
test time, 24 h post conditioning time. The amount 
of fog, when weighed, shall be ≤ 1.0 mg. Samples 
that result in a residue that forms a transparent 
film, discernible droplets (0.05 mm in diameter), or 
any visual signs of crystallinity, when viewed at 
40 X magnification shall be judged to have not 
passed this requirement. Provide a 40 X magnified 
picture of each fog plate with the results. 
3.9 Oven Aging. 
3.9.1 The surface finish must not develop any 
perceptible color or gloss change, loss of 
adhesion, 
distortion 
or 
exuding 
after 
being 
subjected to 168 h exposure at the classification 
temperature in an air-circulating oven. 
3.9.2 The classification temperature shall be 
defined as the highest of the following three 
temperatures which is below the heat distortion 
temperature of the plastic material as defined in 
the plastic material specification: 85°C, 95°C, 
105 C. Temperatures of ovens shall not vary more 
than 2°C. If the heat distortion temperature is 
specified at both 1820 and 455 kPa, the value 
reported at 455 kPa shall be used. If the material 
has no specified heat distortion temperature, the 
classification temperature shall be determined by 
the materials engineer. (Reference part location 
classification in GMW14444.) 
3.9.3 Painted samples subjected to oven aging 
shall withstand the adhesion tests per GMW14829, 
after a 24 h humidity exposure per 3.5. Recovery 
period of 1 h should be allowed between removal 
from the oven and exposure in the humidity 
chamber. A rating of one per GMW14829 is the 
requirement. 
3.10 Emissions GMW15634. A semi-quantitative 
analysis must be done to determine if products are 
emitted from the cured paint film. Reference 3.3.2 
of GMW15634 for proper sample preparation. 
Target values for solvent-based and water-based 
paints shall be as follows;  
 
Targets for water based paints: Volatile 
Organic 
Content 
(VOC): 
450 µg/g 
Semi 
Volatile Organic Content (SVOC): 450 µg/g 
 
Targets for solvent based paints: VOC: 
1000 µg/g SVOC: 1000 µg/g. 
The requirements will be for information only. 
3.11 Wear Resistance. The surface finish on 
painted plastic substrates shall show no wear 
through or other adverse effects after 1000 cycles 
per nominal 25 μm dry film build of the Taber 
abrader wear tester per GMW3208, CS-10 wheels 
with a 500 g load. 
Note: Wear through is defined as topcoat wear 
through to primer where primer coat application is 
used and topcoat wear through to substrate when 
no primer coat is used. A topcoat or primer color 
different from the substrate is recommended to 
best define the end point of the wear test. 
3.12 Scratch Resistance (GMW14698). Painted 
surface shall not show visible penetration where 
the 1 mm hemispherical tip weighted with a 13 N 
load has been dragged across the surface per 
GMW14698. Testing shall be done before and 
after the following conditions. 
 
In the as-received condition 
 
After oven aging per 3.9 
3.13 Mar Resistance. Using GMW14698 test 
methods to determine mar resistance, no obvious 
visually apparent marring of the painted surface 
shall be noted after the 1 mm hemispherical tip 
weighted with a 13 N load has been dragged 
across the surface. Testing shall be done before 
and after the following conditions. 
 
In the as-received condition. 
 
After oven aging per 3.9. 
3.14 Perspiration Resistance. (GMW14334). The 
surface finish must have a rating of two when 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under lice

GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14867 
 
© Copyright 2010 General Motors Company All Rights Reserved 
June 2010 
Page 4 of 5 
 
tested to GMW14334–C. After exposure per 
GMW14334, blot the painted surface dry of the 
perspiration liquid and wait 1 h. Test paint film with 
8 N stylus per GMW14698 Method A or B. There 
shall not be any penetration of the paint film. 
3.15 Odor. (GMW3205) Paint must have a rating 
of 6 or higher when tested to GMW3205 coding B, 
dry condition. Test specimen to test container 
volume ratio shall be 1:500. 
3.16 Weathering. After the natural weathering and 
weatherometer exposures listed below, there shall 
not be a color change greater than 3.0 Δ E units 
and no individual Δ L, a, b greater than 2.0 units. 
No 
appreciable 
gloss 
change 
or 
surface 
deterioration is allowable. 
3.16.1 Color and Gloss Measurements. 
3.16.1.1 Color shall be measured per SAE J1545, 
CIELAB color space, 10° observer, illuminant D-65, 
specular included. 
3.16.1.2 Panels submitted at a gloss of three or 
less shall not change gloss greater than 100% 
after artificial or natural weathering exposure. 
Other submitted panels with higher glosses such 
as metallics or exterior paints, targeted for 
interiors, shall not change gloss greater than 10% 
after artificial or natural weathering exposure. 
The change in gloss must be within acceptable 
ranges to GM engineer when compared to the 
unexposed control panel. 
3.16.2 Natural Weathering. Samples shall be 
submitted for 150 000 Langleys, (approximately 
12 months of exposure), per GMW3417. Samples 
shall be exposed according to the following callout 
in GMW3417 L2-F1-G1-T6. 
Test fixtures containing painted panels shall be 
angled toward the sun to maximize solar loading. 
Interim reports at 6 months and 9 months of 
exposure, 
(74 500 
and 
112 000 
Langleys 
respectively), will also be required. All samples and 
reports will need to be reviewed by GM Materials 
Engineering. 
3.16.2.1 Following natural weathering exposure, all 
samples must pass adhesion tests after a 24 h 
humidity exposure per 3.5. 
3.16.2.2 Following natural weathering exposure, all 
samples must pass the color crock test per 3.7. 
3.16.2.3 All test samples and reports from natural 
weather testing must be reviewed by GM Materials 
Engineering. 
3.16.3 Artificial Weathering. Painted samples 
shall be exposed to SAE J1885, also known as 
ISO 105-B06 condition 5, to1240.8 kJ/m² of xenon 
arc weatherometer. 
3.16.4 GME Only. Painted samples shall be tested 
to GMW14162/B 42 MJ/m²/Rating 4/5 to the grey 
scale per ISO 105-A02. 
4 Manufacturing Process 
Not applicable. 
5 Rules and Regulations 
5.1 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3001, Rules 
and Regulations for Material Specifications. 
5.2 All materials supplied to this standard must 
comply with the requirements of GMW3059, 
Restricted and Reportable Substances for 
Parts. 
6 Approved Sources 
Engineering qualifications of an approved source 
are required for this standard. Only sources listed 
in the GM Materials File (i.e., MATSPC) under this 
standard 
number 
have 
been 
qualified 
by 
Engineering as meeting the requirements of this 
standard. 
For 
other 
GM 
locations, 
the 
responsible 
Engineering group should be contacted to obtain 
the approved source in that individual country. 
7 Notes 
7.1 Glossary. Not applicable. 
MATSPC: Global repository of GM Approved 
Materials for corresponding GM Engineering 
Standards. 
7.2 Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Symbols. 
APOPS 
Approval Paint on Plastic Systems 
MATSPC 
See 7.1 
PGC 
Primary Gloss C of 2 to 3 at 60 
degree angle 
SVOC 
Semi-Volatile Organic Content 
VOC 
Volatile Organic Content 
8 Coding System 
This standard shall be referenced in other 
documents, drawings, etc., as follows: 
Paint to Meet Performance of GMW14867. 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 11/01/2010 03:30:30 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,`,,,```,``,,`,`````,`,,,,,,,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---


GM WORLDWIDE ENGINEERING STANDARDS 
GMW14867 
 
© Copyright 2010 General Motors Company All Rights Reserved 
June 2010 
Page 5 of 5 
 
9 Release and Revisions 
This standard was originated in November 2005. It 
was first approved by Paint in September 2006. It 
was first published in October 2006. 
Issue 
Publication 
Date 
Description (Organization) 
1 
OCT 2006 
Initial publication. 
2 
OCT 2007 
Editorial, 
Removed 
GMN10033 
Sunscreen 
lotion 
testing. 
Removed 
APOPS 
Table 
for 
referencing in GMW14797. 
3 
JUN 2010 
Editorial, Added GMW15634 
3.10 
and 
Removed 
Multi-Axial 
Instrument 
Impact Testing. 
(Global Interior Paint Group) 
 
Copyright GM Worldwide 
Provided by IHS under license with GMW 
Licensee=Reliable Analysis Inc/5955323001 
Not for Resale, 11/01/2010 03:30:30 MDT
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,`,,,```,``,,`,`````,`,,,,,,,-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`---
