# 飞石冲击ISO_20567-1-2005.pdf

 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference number
ISO 20567-1:2005(E)
© ISO 2005
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL 
STANDARD 
ISO
20567-1
First edition
2005-02-15
Paints and varnishes — Determination 
of stone-chip resistance of coatings — 
Part 1: 
Multi-impact testing 
Peintures et vernis — Détermination de la résistance des revêtements 
aux impacts de cailloux —  
Partie 1: Essais de chocs multiples 
 


ISO 20567-1:2005(E) 
PDF disclaimer 
This PDF file may contain embedded typefaces. In accordance with Adobe's licensing policy, this file may be printed or viewed but 
shall not be edited unless the typefaces which are embedded are licensed to and installed on the computer performing the editing. In 
downloading this file, parties accept therein the responsibility of not infringing Adobe's licensing policy. The ISO Central Secretariat 
accepts no liability in this area. 
Adobe is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated. 
Details of the software products used to create this PDF file can be found in the General Info relative to the file; the PDF-creation 
parameters were optimized for printing. Every care has been taken to ensure that the file is suitable for use by ISO member bodies. In 
the unlikely event that a problem relating to it is found, please inform the Central Secretariat at the address given below. 
 
©   ISO 2005 
All rights reserved. Unless otherwise specified, no part of this publication may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, 
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and microfilm, without permission in writing from either ISO at the address below or 
ISO's member body in the country of the requester. 
ISO copyright office 
Case postale 56 • CH-1211 Geneva 20 
Tel.  + 41 22 749 01 11 
Fax  + 41 22 749 09 47 
E-mail  copyright@iso.org 
Web  www.iso.org 
Published in Switzerland 
 
ii 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved
 
 


ISO 20567-1:2005(E) 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved 
iii
 
Contents 
Page 
Foreword............................................................................................................................................................ iv 
Introduction ........................................................................................................................................................ v 
1 
Scope...................................................................................................................................................... 1 
2 
Normative references ........................................................................................................................... 1 
3 
Principle ................................................................................................................................................. 2 
4 
Apparatus .............................................................................................................................................. 2 
5 
Materials................................................................................................................................................. 3 
6 
Sampling ................................................................................................................................................ 4 
7 
Test panels ............................................................................................................................................ 4 
8 
Procedure .............................................................................................................................................. 4 
9 
Evaluation .............................................................................................................................................. 5 
10 
Precision ................................................................................................................................................ 5 
11 
Test report ............................................................................................................................................. 6 
Annex A (informative)  Recommended procedure for calibration of test apparatus.................................. 10 
 


ISO 20567-1:2005(E) 
iv 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved
 
Foreword 
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies 
(ISO member bodies). The work of preparing International Standards is normally carried out through ISO 
technical committees. Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical committee has been 
established has the right to be represented on that committee. International organizations, governmental and 
non-governmental, in liaison with ISO, also take part in the work. ISO collaborates closely with the 
International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) on all matters of electrotechnical standardization. 
International Standards are drafted in accordance with the rules given in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2. 
The main task of technical committees is to prepare International Standards. Draft International Standards 
adopted by the technical committees are circulated to the member bodies for voting. Publication as an 
International Standard requires approval by at least 75 % of the member bodies casting a vote. 
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent 
rights. ISO shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights. 
ISO 20567-1 was prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 35, Paints and varnishes, Subcommittee SC 9, 
General test methods for paints and varnishes. 
ISO 20567 consists of the following parts, under the general title Paints and varnishes — Determination of 
stone-chip resistance of coatings: 
 Part 1: Multi-impact testing 
 Part 2: Single-impact test with a guided impact body 


ISO 20567-1:2005(E) 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved 
v
 
Introduction 
In the automobile industry, multi-layer paint coatings are applied to car bodies for protection. Grit, road-metal 
and other materials can damage these coatings in such a way that individual layers come off or the whole 
coating delaminates from the substrate. 
Stone chipping can be simulated by means of single- and/or multi-impact tests. Part 1 of this International 
Standard describes multi-impact testing, Part 2 describes a single-impact test. 
This part of ISO 20567 is based on the German Standard DIN 55996-1:2001, Beschichtungsstoffe — Prüfung 
der Steinschlagfestigkeit von Beschichtungen — Teil 1: Multischlagprüfung (Paints and varnishes — Stone 
chip resistance test for coatings — Part 1: Multi impact test). 
NOTE 
A recommended procedure for calibration of the apparatus is given in Annex A. Note that this annex is 
informative because the method described in it is not the only one suitable for checking whether a uniform impact pattern 
is produced. 


INTERNATIONAL STANDARD 
ISO 20567-1:2005(E)
 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved 
1
 
Paints and varnishes — Determination of stone-chip resistance 
of coatings — 
Part 1: 
Multi-impact test 
1 
Scope 
This part of ISO 20567 specifies three methods for the evaluation of the resistance of automobile finishes and 
other coatings to chilled-iron grit projected onto the surface under test to simulate the impact of small stones. 
2 
Normative references 
The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of this document. For dated 
references, only the edition cited applies. For undated references, the latest edition of the referenced 
document (including any amendments) applies. 
ISO 1513, Paints and varnishes — Examination and preparation of samples for testing 
ISO 1514, Paints and varnishes — Standard panels for testing 
ISO 2808, Paints and varnishes — Determination of film thickness 
ISO 3270, Paints and varnishes and their raw materials — Temperatures and humidities for conditioning and 
testing 
ISO 11124-2, Preparation of steel substrates before application of paints and related products — 
Specifications for metallic blast-cleaning abrasives — Part 2: Chilled-iron grit 
ISO 11125-2, Preparation of steel substrates before application of paints and related products — Test 
methods for metallic blast-cleaning abrasives — Part 2: Determination of particle size distribution 
ISO 15528, Paints, varnishes and raw materials for paints and varnishes — Sampling 
ISO 21227-2, Paints and varnishes — Evaluation of defects on coated surfaces using optical imaging — 
Part 2: Evaluation procedure for multi-impact stone-chipping test 
IEC 60454-2, Specification for pressure-sensitive adhesive tapes for electrical purposes — Part 2: Methods of 
test 


ISO 20567-1:2005(E) 
2 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved
 
3 
Principle 
The stone-chip resistance of the coating under test is checked by projecting a large number of small sharp-
edged bodies onto it in a short period of time. The material used in the test is chilled-iron grit which is 
projected onto the coating at a defined angle using compressed air. The extent of the damage caused will 
depend not only on the angle, but also on the pressure level, the mass of the projectiles, the duration of the 
bombardment and the design of the test apparatus. 
Loose fragments of coating material are removed using adhesive tape. 
The extent of the damage is determined by comparison with pictorial reference standards. 
4 
Apparatus 
Ordinary laboratory apparatus, plus the following: 
4.1 Multi-impact tester 
Figures 1 and 2 show the test apparatus and its dimensions. 
The vibrating conveyor carries the grit from the funnel into the air blast in front of the grit-accelerating nozzle. 
It shall be designed so that the grit feed speed can be varied. The apparatus shall be capable of projecting 
500 g of grit during a period of 10 s. The pressure chamber shall be large enough to allow the specified 
working pressure of 200 kPa to be held at a constant level for at least 10 s while the solenoid valve is open. 
Used grit can be taken from the grit-catching chamber after the test and used again to a limited extent (see 
5.1). 
 
Key 
1 
solenoid valve 
9 
vibrating conveyor 
2 
compressed-air line 
10 
grit feed funnel 
3 
pressure reducer (to working pressure) 
11 
grit-accelerating pipe (accessible from back for replacement) 
4 
pressure chamber (capacity 90 l) 
12 
protective housing 
5 
manometer (indicates working pressure) 
13 
grit-catching chamber 
6 
air-accelerating nozzle 
14 
test panel 
7 
grit feed chute 
15 
test panel holder 
8 
grit feed pipe 
Figure 1 — Multi-impact tester — General view 


ISO 20567-1:2005(E) 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved 
3
 
 
Key 
1 
pressure gauge 
 
measurement range: up to  400 kPa 
(= 4 bar) 
 
diameter of scale: 100 mm 
 
accuracy: class 1,0 
5 
grit feed pipe 
 
length: (205 ± 3) mm 
 
inside diameter: (19 ± 1) mm 
 
connected to grit-accelerating pipe at angle of 
(45 ± 1)° and distance of (35 ± 1) mm from tip of air-
accelerating nozzle 
2 
connecting pipe 
 
length: (190 ± 1) mm 
 
inside diameter: (19 ± 0,2) mm 
6 
jet of grit 
 
distance from grit-accelerating pipe to centre of test 
panel: (290 ± 1) mm 
 
angle between axis of jet and test panel: (54 ± 1)° 
3 
air-accelerating nozzle 
 
length: (80 ± 1) mm 
 
inside diameter at entry: (19 ± 0,2) mm 
 
inside diameter at exit: (7 ± 0,2) mm 
7 
aperture 
 
80 mm × 80 mm window defining test area on test 
panel 
4 
flange and grit-accelerating pipe 
 
overall length: (352 ± 2) mm 
 
inside diameter: (30 ± 0,2) mm 
 
Figure 2 — Multi-impact tester — Detailed drawing and dimensions 
5 
Materials 
5.1 Grit 1) 
The grit shall be chilled-iron grit conforming to the requirements of ISO 11124-2, except that the particle size, 
determined in accordance with ISO 11125-2, shall be 4 mm to 5 mm. 
The grit shall be replaced after a maximum of 100 test runs (i.e. after it has been projected 100 times) or at 
the end of the series of tests during which the grit passes the point at which it has been used for a total of 
100 test runs. 
                                                     
1) For information about grit suppliers, please contact the Normenausschuss Beschichtungsstoffe und Beschichtungen 
(NAB), at DIN, Burggrafenstraße 6, 10787 Berlin, Germany. 


ISO 20567-1:2005(E) 
4 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved
 
5.2 Adhesive tape 
Unless otherwise agreed, adhesive tape with an adhesive strength between 6 N/25 mm width and 
10 N/25 mm width (determined in accordance with IEC 60454-2) shall be used. The tape shall be at least 
50 mm wide. 
6 
Sampling 
Take a representative sample of the coating material to be tested, as described in ISO 15528. 
Examine and prepare each sample for testing, as described in ISO 1513. 
7 
Test panels 
7.1 Substrate 
Unless otherwise agreed, use 200 mm × 100 mm steel test panels that are between 0,7 mm and 1,0 mm 
thick. 
7.2 Preparation and coating 
Unless otherwise agreed, prepare each test panel in accordance with ISO 1514 before coating and drying or 
stoving. Use the application method specified by the paint manufacturer. 
7.3 Thickness of coating 
Determine the thickness, in micrometres, of the dry coating by one of the procedures specified in ISO 2808. 
8 
Procedure 
8.1 Conditioning of the test panels 
Condition the test panels for at least 16 h at (23 ± 2) °C and (50 ± 5) % relative humidity before carrying out 
the test, unless otherwise agreed (see ISO 3270). 
8.2 Test conditions 
Carry out the test at (23 ± 2) °C and (50 ± 5) % relative humidity (see ISO 3270). 
NOTE 
Exceptionally, other test conditions may be agreed between the interested parties. 
8.3 Projection of grit 
Load the tester with 
20
0
500
g
+
 of grit. Carry out the test using one of the sets of conditions given in Table 1. 
The method used shall be agreed between the interested parties. 
Weigh the grit after each test run (i.e. after each projection) and, if required, add grit to keep the total mass at 
20
0
500
g.
+
 
When the two test runs have been completed, place a strip of adhesive tape approximately 120 mm to 
150 mm long over the test area of the test panel and press it firmly onto the surface. Bend one end of the tape 
upwards and pull the strip off with a jerk (at an angle of 90° to the test panel) to remove chips of paint that 
have not been completely separated from the panel. 


ISO 20567-1:2005(E) 
© ISO 2005 – All rights reserved 
5
 
Check the length of time taken to project the grit with a stopwatch each time a new series of tests is started 
and, if required, during an ongoing series of tests. 
After a maximum of 100 test runs (see 5.1), replace the used grit with 500 g of fresh grit. Do not replace the 
grit during an ongoing series of tests. 
Table 1 — Test methods 
Method 
Pressure 
kPaa 
Mass of grit 
g 
Time taken to project 
grit 
s 
A 
100 ± 5 
2 × 
20
0
500 +
 
2 × (10 ± 2) 
B 
200 ± 10 
2 × 
20
0
500 +
 
2 × (10 ± 2) 
C 
200 ± 10 
1 × 
20
0
500 +
 
10 ± 2 
 
followed by, for example, corrosion or weathering exposure, then 
 
200 ± 10 
1 × 
20
0
500 +
 
10 ± 2 
a 
100 kPa = 1 bar. 
 
9 
Evaluation 
Evaluate the damage on the exposed test area by comparison with the reference standards shown in 
Figure 3. The comparison can be done visually or by means of optical imaging in accordance with 
ISO 21227-2. The reference standards represent ratings from 0,5 to 5,0 in steps of 0,5. Estimate and record 
intermediate ratings as necessary. 
In addition to the degree of chipping, specify, if possible, the main separation level or the layers of the paint 
system between which loss of adhesion occurred. 
10 Precision 
10.1 Repeatability limit, r 
The repeatability limit r is the value below which the absolute difference between two test results can be 
expected to lie, with a 95 % probability, when this method is used under repeatability conditions, i.e. when the 
test results are obtained on identical material by one operator in one laboratory within a short interval of time 
using the same apparatus. 
For this method, r is 0,5 on the rating scale. 
10.2 Reproducibility limit, R 
The reproducibility limit R is the value below which the absolute difference between two test results, each the 
mean of duplicates, can be expected to lie, with a 95 % probability, when this test method is used under 
reproducibility conditions, i.e. when the test results are obtained on identical material by operators in different 
laboratories using different apparatus. 
For this method, R is 1,0 on the rating scale. 
